Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Contents lists available at SciVerse ScienceDirect

Social Networks
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/socnet

Partitioning large signed two-mode networks: Problems and prospects
Patrick Doreian a,b,∗ , Paulette Lloyd c , Andrej Mrvar b
a

Department of Sociology, 2602 WWPH, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 16260, USA
Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Ljubljana, Kardeljeva ploščad 5, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia
c
Department of Sociology, Indiana University, Ballantine Hall 744, 1020 E. Kirkwood Ave., Bloomington, IN 47405, USA
b

a r t i c l e

i n f o

Keywords:
Signed two-mode networks
Network partitioning
Generalized blockmodeling
UNGA voting
Relaxed structural balance
Balance of power processes
International relations

a b s t r a c t
While a substantial amount of attention within social network analysis (SNA) has been given to the study
of one-mode networks, there is an increasing consideration of two-mode networks. Recent research on
signed networks resulted in the relaxed structural balance (RSB) approach and its subsequent extension
to signed two-mode networks involving social actors and social objects. We extend this approach to
large signed two-mode networks, and address the methodological issues that arise. We develop tools to
partition these types of networks and compare them with other approaches using a recently collected
dataset of United Nations General Assembly roll call votes. Although our primary purpose is methodological, we take the ﬁrst step towards bridging Heider’s structural balance theory with recent theorizing in
international relations on soft balancing of power processes.
© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

1. Introduction
While a substantial amount of attention within social network
analysis (SNA) has been given to the study of one-mode networks,
there is an increasing consideration of two-mode networks. It is
now recognized that such data are particularly important (see
Borgatti and Everett, 1992, 1997; Doreian et al., 2004; Latapy et al.,
2008). Here we focus our attention on signed two-mode networks.
While our primary focus here is methodological, we stress that the
technical issues are driven by substantive concerns.
The substantive problem described in Section 2.5 implies a need
for tools designed to partition large1 two-mode signed networks.
One source for such a partitioning tool is found in the work of
Heider (1946, 1958). He focused on two types of triples involving
signed relations: those involving three individuals and those of two
individuals and a social object such as a belief. His work was foundational for structural balance theory. A central assumption of this

∗ Corresponding author at: Department of Sociology, 2602 WWPH, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 16260, USA.
E-mail address: pitpat@pitt.edu (P. Doreian).
1
Large is an inherently ambiguous term because it is a function of the size of the
network, the algorithm used, the speed of a machine, and its memory. Intuitively, we
think a network is ‘large’ when, for running a program, it ushers in signiﬁcant computational burdens. Direct blockmodeling is a computationally burdensome approach
and we restrict the term ‘large’ for networks that greatly lengthen the running time
of the relocation algorithm we use. Operationally, this can be speciﬁed as sizes above
n1 > 100, n2 > 100 (using the notation introduced below) for two-mode networks. The
islands technique (Zaveršnik and Batagelj, 2004) that we use in Section 6.3 can easily
handle networks with millions of vertices because it is a linear-in-time algorithm.
0378-8733/$ – see front matter © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.socnet.2012.01.002

theory is that there is a tendency towards balance in these triples
of relations. The outcomes of these tendencies for triples involving three actors are expressed in four folk aphorisms: “a friend
of a friend is a friend”; “a friend of an enemy is an enemy”; “an
enemy of a friend is an enemy”; and “an enemy of an enemy is a
friend”. Such outcomes and the dynamics leading to network structures consistent with balance are for one-mode signed relations.
Noting that many, if not most, signed networks do not have this
exact form, Doreian and Mrvar (1996) proposed an algorithm for
partitioning signed one-mode networks to obtain partition structures that were as close as possible to those predicted by structural
balance theory. Recognizing that multiple processes can operate
to generate signed structures, Doreian and Mrvar (2009) generalized structural balance to relaxed structural balance for one-mode
networks to accommodate more complex signed block structures.
Similar dynamics hold for networks involving social actors and
social objects like beliefs or statements. These involve two-mode
relations and, arguably, were more important in Heider’s formulation using unit formation relations (between social actors and social
objects). This led to an expansion of the notion of relaxed structural balance (Mrvar and Doreian, 2009) through the development
of a method for delineating the partition structure of two-mode
signed networks. This paper extends that approach to address problems that may be encountered when partitioning signed two-mode
data. We illustrate our approach with a recently collected dataset
of United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) roll call votes, as they
provide a natural example of this signed data type with states (as
social actors) voting for or against resolutions (as social objects). In
addition, the diversity among states and resolutions means countries are likely to have overlapping and even conﬂicting loyalties

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

that lead to more complex processes and outcomes—items that
tend not to be considered within structural balance approaches.
Typically, UNGA voting data have been analyzed using methods
that locate primary divisions among states in an attempt to identify potential fault lines for conﬂict. Our approach to these data is
unique in that we exploit their structural characteristics to further
explore structural balance theory and the tools needed to partition
large signed two-mode networks.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 elaborates relaxed structural balance theory, its natural application to
international relations data, and explores its complementarity with
balance of power ideas. We describe the data in Section 3, elaborate
our primary methodological approach in Section 4, and we provide
the results from this approach in Section 5. We then explore the
data using other partitioning approaches and compare the results
with our own in Section 6. In Section 7 we discuss some of the
methodological problems with using a blockmodeling approach to
partition large signed two-mode data, as well as the potential for
its use in exploring soft balancing of power processes. We conclude
with recommendations for further methodological development of
blockmodeling approaches to signed data.
2. Applying structural balance theory to international
relations data
We couple relaxed structural balance to balance of power ideas
to provide a substantive foundation for the partitioning methods
we consider here.
2.1. Relaxed structural balance
Heider (1946, 1958) provided the foundational statements for
a major approach to signed networks known as structural balance
theory. He focused on signed relations between people, signed relations between people and social objects, and the implications of
social structures involving these signed relations. These structures
of relations are in the form of particular triples. Triples involving
three social actors (p, o, and q) are poq-triples and triples involving
two social actors, p and o, and a social object, x, are pox-triples.
Beliefs and ideas as examples of social objects are particularly
salient for our consideration—and extension—of structural balance.
Relations between actors are social relations and Heider labeled
the ties between actors and social objects as unit formation relations. Examples of signed social relations between social actors
are like/dislike, love/hate and respect/disrespect. For the unit formation relations, examples include accepting/rejecting beliefs and
supporting/opposing ideas.
There are 8 types of triples for a set of three relations between
three actors (each tie can be positive or negative). Heider divided
these triples into two types: balanced and unbalanced. Denoting
positive ties by 1 and negative ties by −1, the sign of a triple is
the product of the signs of the ties in the triple. A triple is deﬁned
as balanced if the product of the signs in the triple is 1 and imbalanced if this product is −1. According to Heider, imbalanced triples
are a source of strain for the individuals in them and the individuals will attempt to move from having imbalanced triples to having
balanced triples through changes in the sign(s) of relations. For p
in a poq-triple, if p has positive ties to o and q but knows that there
is a negative tie between o and q, the sign of the triple is −1 and
is imbalanced. According to Heider, p will attempt to balance the
triple by changing the sign of a tie. However, if there are imbalanced
triples in sets of either poq-triples or pox-triples then there will be
many attempts, by different actors, to achieve balance. This makes
achieving balance over a whole network of social actors a difﬁcult
and error prone process (Hummon and Doreian, 2003).

179

Cartwright and Harary (1956) formalized Heider’s theory and
focused on signed ties between social actors and, in effect, discarded
unit formation relations. A binary signed network is an ordered pair
(G, ), where:
1. G = (U, A) is a digraph, without loops, having a set of vertices, U,
and a set of arcs, A, where A is a subset of U × U; and
2.  : A → {+1, −1} is a sign function where positive arcs have the
sign +1 and negative arcs have the sign −1.
If a network has multiple weak components, these components
can be considered separately as distinct networks. Here, we assume
that the digraph is weakly connected.2 Cartwright and Harary
(1956) proved the following:
Theorem 1. For a balanced signed network, (G, ), the vertices in
U can be partitioned into two subsets3 such that each positive arc
joins vertices in the same subset and each negative arc joins vertices
in different subsets.
Harary et al. (1965, pp. 342–3) prove that for all pairs of vertices
in a balanced network, all semi-paths joining them have the same
sign. Davis (1967) observed that, despite the appeal of Theorem
1, there are social groups where there are more than two subsets
of mutually hostile groups of social actors. He proposed that the all
negative triple (with the sign of −1) not be classiﬁed as imbalanced.
Consistent with this, he deﬁned a signed network as clusterable if
it contains no semi-cycle with exactly one negative tie. He then
proved:
Theorem 2. For a clusterable signed network,4 the set of vertices, U,
can be partitioned into two or more subsets such that every positive arc
joins vertices in the same subset and every negative arc joins vertices
in different subsets.
The network structure implied by the above (structure) theorems can be described also in terms of blockmodeling (see Doreian
et al., 2005: Chapter 10). We use the term position for a cluster of
vertices (representing actors) and, given a set of positions, a block
is a set of ties between positions. The diagonal blocks are positive
(with only positive ties between vertices within subsets) and the
off-diagonal blocks will be negative (with the negative ties between
vertices in different subsets). A positive block is one that has only
positive or null ties and a negative block has only negative or null
ties. Rather than use both balanced and clusterable as terms, we
use k-balance to cover both of them.5
However, most empirical signed networks do not have a structure consistent with either of these two theorems. Put differently,
most empirical signed networks are not k-balanced.6 Yet, if there
are balance processes that are operative, they ought to leave

2
The presence of multiple weak components requires some mild restatement of
the results but do not alter their intrinsic content.
3
If every tie in the network is positive then one of the two subsets is empty.
4
By deﬁnition, a signed network must contain at least one negative tie: if a network contains no negative ties it is an unsigned network. None of the balance
theoretic processes involving both positive and negative ties have relevance for
unsigned networks. By the same token, attempts to assess structural balance theory
using unsigned data cannot provide a useful assessment. The only occasion when
an unsigned network is relevant with regard to structural balance is when it is the
outcome of balancing processes.
5
If there are only two subsets then we are dealing with balance (k-balance, k = 2)
and if there are more than two subsets then we are dealing with clusterability (kbalance, k > 2).
6
This calls into question the validity of a general claim of a tendency towards
balance. Doreian and Krackhardt (2001) examined the trajectories of the eight types
of triples over time in the Newcomb data (Newcomb, 1961, Nordlie, 1958). Two of
the balanced triples increased in number of time, consistent with Heider’s theory,
but the other two balanced triples decreased in frequency over time. Two types of
imbalanced triples decreased in frequency over time, also consistent with Heider,

180

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

some structural traces. Instead of asking if signed networks are kbalanced or not, it is more fruitful, empirically, to seek partitions of
signed networks that are as close to being k-balanced as possible. If an
empirical network is k-balanced then there will be no inconsistent
ties within either type of block. But if the network is not k-balanced
then there will be some positive ties in negative blocks, or some
negative ties in positive blocks, or both. We denote the number of
negative inconsistencies by N and the number of positive inconsistencies by P. To locate partitions as close as possible to a perfect
balanced partition, it is necessary to measure the extent to which
a partition departs from zero inconsistencies. A simple and direct
measure of this is (˛N + (1 − ˛)P) with 0 < ˛ < 1 (varying ˛ permits
a differential weighting of N and P). All that is needed is an algorithm to locate a partition(s) that minimizes this measure. Doreian
and Mrvar (1996) proposed a partitioning algorithm—described in
Section 4.1—that does exactly this.
Doreian and Mrvar (2009) reconsidered the problem that most
empirical signed networks are not exactly balanced. While balance theoretic mechanisms may be operative, they need not be
the only mechanisms in play. Some members of a signed network may be universally regarded in positive terms even though
they may belong to different positions with negative ties between
the positions. If present, such actors imply positive blocks off the
main diagonal. Expressed differently, differential popularity (Feld
and Elmore, 1982) implies positive blocks off the main diagonal.
Actors who play a mediating role between mutually hostile subsets also imply off-diagonal positive blocks and sets of mutually
hostile actors (not blocks) imply negative blocks on the diagonal.
In response to these considerations, Doreian and Mrvar (2009) proposed the notion of relaxed structural balance (RSB). This idea has
three components: (i) the idea of positive and negative blocks is
retained; (ii) these blocks can appear anywhere in the blockmodel;
and (iii) the measure of inconsistency is retained. For such a blockmodel, then if (˛N + (1 − ˛)P) = 0 for a signed network then the
network is a relaxed structurally balanced network. They show that
RSB is a formal generalization of structural balance where the block
structures anticipated by Theorems 1 and 2 are special cases. On ﬁtting the RSB model to some of the classical signed networks in the
literature, they obtained better ﬁtting models that permitted more
nuanced interpretations of the prior partitions of these signed networks. More importantly, thinking of positive and negative block
types being located anywhere in a blockmodel opens the way to
partitioning signed two-mode networks.
2.2. Relaxed structural balance for signed two-mode networks
For two-mode networks (also called afﬁliation networks), there
are two sets of social actors. Typical examples include people attending events, individuals sitting on organizational boards
of directors, and people belonging to multiple social or recreational organizations. Mrvar and Doreian (2009) extended relaxed
structural balance to signed two-mode networks to consider US
Supreme Court Justices (as social actors) supporting or dissenting
from Supreme Court decisions (as social objects). In doing so, they
returned to Heider’s unit formation relations and used signed twomode networks to formalize that aspect of Heider’s theory. The
general formalism extends straightforwardly.
Let U = (u1 , u2 , . . . , un1 ) denotes the set of social actors (represented as vertices) and V = (v1 , v2 , . . . , vn2 ) denotes the set of social
objects (represented as vertices). The number of vertices in U, is
denoted by n1 and the number of vertices in V, is denoted by n2 .

but the other two types of imbalanced triples increased and became more frequent
over time.

An undirected binary signed two-mode network is an ordered pair,
(G, ), where:
1. G = (U, V, E) is a bipartite network having two sets of vertices,
U and V, and a set of edges,7 E, where E ⊆ U × V (where U ∩ V is
empty); and
2.  : E → {+1, −1} is a sign function where positive edges have the
sign +1 and negative edges have the sign −1.
Clearly, with two-mode networks, the idea of diagonal and offdiagonal blocks does not apply and having positive and negative
blocks appearing anywhere follows naturally. All of the formal
development for one-mode networks extends straightforwardly to
two-mode networks. Instead of partitioning a one-mode network
into k clusters, a two-mode network is partitioned into k1 clusters
of rows (social actors) and k2 clusters of columns (social objects).
We deﬁne a (k1 , k2 ) partition of (G, ) as one where there are k1
clusters in the partition of U and k2 clusters in the partitions of V.
Let C = (C1 , C2 ) denote a (k1 , k2 ) partition of (G, ) where C1 is a partition of V and C2 is a partition of V. The measure of inconsistency for
the (k1 , k2 ) partition of (G, ) remains (˛N + (1 − ˛)P). Mrvar and
Doreian (2009) adapted their one-mode algorithm to identify partitions of two-mode signed networks that minimize this measure
of inconsistency.
2.3. Coupling relaxed structural balance with balance of power
processes
Heider’s (1946) approach to structural balance theory is social
psychological which, at face value, is quite different from the ideas
in social network analysis. Yet, they can be coupled in fruitful
ways (Robins and Kashima, 2008). There are micro-level processes
operating at the social actor (vertex) level—what an actor does
in speciﬁc situations—and macro-level structural processes affecting the structure as a whole. The two processes act to constrain
each other: while actors are free to do whatever they want to
do (given their interests), they need to be mindful of what others are doing and the nature of the social relations within which
they are located.8 Robins and Kashima point out that accepting
this approach is to accept also a dynamic view of these structural
processes. We note that Heider’s theory about empirical triples
embraces a very dynamic approach featuring change as an essential
part of generating structural outcomes.
We explore the macro-level implications of Heider’s structural
balance theory in two ways. First, we extend Heider’s assumption
of a tendency towards balance among multiple actors to balance
among state actors in the international system of states. Balance of
power theories in International Relations research share assumptions of balancing processes among states, and alliance formation
implied by balancing processes evokes the same four folk aphorisms (e.g., “a friend of an enemy is an enemy”. . .). In the post-Cold
War period of unipolar military power, international relations theorists have proposed the idea of “soft power” balancing through

7
Our choice of using edges rather than arcs is driven primarily by the empirical
example. With resolutions and states, there is no obvious way of determining the
arcs linking them. If (the representatives of) states cast their votes about the resolution the arcs could go from states to resolutions. But if resolutions prompt the states
to vote in certain ways the arcs go from resolutions to states. It is simpler to couple
states and resolutions by edges where the signs indicating how they voted. There
are no edges between states and none between resolutions. The formalization goes
through with little change if arcs are used instead of edges.
8
As individuals, Romeo and Juliet were free to fall in love with each other despite
belonging to two different mutually hostile families. This macro-feature was a powerful constraint on their choices through the actions of others with whom they were
linked. The imbalance implied by their love drives the drama of Shakespeare’s Romeo
and Juliet.

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

norms. We explore this idea using UN General Assembly (UNGA)
military resolutions as they contain evidence of both hard (decisions to go to war) and soft (norms and laws to constrain military
power) balancing of power processes.
Second, we show how the relaxed structural balance approach
can be used to explore balancing of power processes. We do this
in the course of developing the methodological contribution of this
paper, namely, identiﬁcation of and solutions for problems with
applying the relaxed structural balance approach to large signed
two-mode data.
2.4. Balance of power and international relations
Balance of power is an International Relations (IR) theory that
addresses the process of building coalitions among states to prevent
one state from becoming too powerful. There are two variants of
this theory—‘hard’ and ‘soft’. Hard balance of power theory is rooted
in military alliances and arms build-ups associated with them. Soft
balancing behavior, in contrast, is considered a state strategy, or
foreign policy conduct, to prevent a rising power from assuming
hegemony but without a primary emphasis on force. Some balance of power is the outcome at the systemic or sub-systemic
levels that result in power equilibria among key states. Indeed,
recent debates in the IR literature question whether in an age of a
unipolar (U.S. hegemonic) power, states are currently engaging in
traditional hard balancing behavior. Instead, some have argued that
diplomatic coalitions and norms building (as soft balancing) deﬁne
much of state behavior.9 Soft balancing strategies can include informal alliances, collaboration in regional or international institutions,
or voting and veto power in international organizations such as
the United Nations (UN) (Art, 2005/2006; Brooks and Wohlforth,
2005/2006; Paul, 2004). Hard balancing for social relations in onemode networks leads to states within an alliance having positive
ties to other states in the alliance and negative ties to states in
other alliances. The core idea is consistency in the relations formed.
Soft balancing also involves consistency in the sense of states in
blocs voting in the same way on resolutions of central concern to
bloc members and voting against resolutions supported by (some)
other blocs of states.
It is generally accepted that the UN is both the pre-eminent
international organization (IO), and that it plays a central role in
the maintenance of international security. Although the UN Security Council (UNSC) is the UN organ most associated with the use
of, or constraints on, the exercise of military power, the UNGA has
also played an important, if less publicly visible, role. The First Committee, one of the six permanent committees of the UNGA, has
worked to develop international norms and laws aimed at restricting the exercise of military power. Although its resolutions are
non-binding, many have crystallized into customary law while others have become the basis for treaties that limit military power
either by prohibiting the use of some weapons (e.g., anti-personnel
mines, chemical or biological weapons) to efforts to create zones of
peace that prohibit nuclear weapons altogether.
Voting analyses on military resolutions typically reveal voting
similarity across key issues by states who share alliances or key
attributes and afﬁliations. Consequently, these data lend themselves to an exploration of the relaxed structural balance approach,
and provide an opportunity to explore the relationship of Heider’s
structural balance theory with primarily soft balancing of power
processes theorized in IR theory. We compare two time periods

9
See for example, World Politics 61 (1), January 2009, and International Security
30 (1), Summer 2005; both are special issues devoted to examining the continual
utility of the balance of power concept in international relations given the characteristics of current world politics.

181

in order to delineate the structure of the voting array at each
time point and to assess change between them. The ﬁrst is in the
late Cold War period characterized by ideologically and militarily
opposed groups of states. The second time period examines the
5–10 years after the end of the Cold War. This period includes the
dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and the re-alignment of many former Soviet bloc countries with NATO and European Union member
states. We expect empirically to ﬁnd similar clustering of states
as prior studies as far as the large clusters of states (often seen
as voting blocs) are concerned,10 but also evidence of additional
sub-clustering within the major blocs that can be exploited for our
theoretical purposes. Part of this further exploration concerns the
clusters of resolutions in relation to the voting blocs. To the extent
that hard balancing involves military issues with a real possibility
of warfare, states ‘choosing’ sides face huge consequences for their
choices. Voting on military resolutions before UNGA, in terms of
committed resources, is less consequential but far more subtle in
its implications. The notion of being consistent for states within
voting blocs remains in place but permits greater ﬂexibility when
there are cross-cutting issues.
2.5. Empirical implications
Balance of power arguments are made in terms of blocs (clusters
as positions) of states allied with each other and mobilized against
blocs of other states. With alliance-based sets of interests, members
of an alliance are expected to act together in opposition to members of other alliances. Members of the other alliances also act in
concert. If the interests of alliance members are activated by resolutions before the UNGA, then these members are expected to vote
similarly to other members on these resolutions. This can take the
form of all voting in support of some resolutions and voting against
other resolutions. During the era of the Cold War this idealized voting pattern could be illustrated by NATO states voting together and
members of the Warsaw Pact voting together and in opposition to
NATO.
However, members of one alliance can have interests beyond
those implied by membership in a particular military or political
alliance—or in an international organization. Some speciﬁc issues
could divide alliance members so that members of an alliance do
not vote in the same fashion across all issues. Generally, we expect
patterns in voting behavior to reveal long-standing coalitions of
states that are similar on attributes or afﬁliations, but we also
expect a certain amount of self-interest, logrolling, and bargaining to result in other temporary coalitions. Our aim is to show how
the RSB approach can be used to locate balancing of power processes. Speciﬁcally, we expect that simultaneously partitioning of
both states and resolutions will highlight broad patterns of joint
voting and also lesser patterns of temporary coalition formation.
We illustrate our approach in Fig. 1.
Fig. 1 shows 12 states and 13 resolutions in a hypothetical voting array. The top panel shows a two-mode network composed of
states, s1 through s12 , that are represented by circles, and resolutions, r1 through r13 , represented by squares. Solid lines between
states and resolutions represent votes in favor of resolutions. In
contrast, the dashed lines represent votes against resolutions. The
states have been placed into three subsets that can be labeled as S1 ,
S2 and S3 . The states in S1 are s1 through s7 ; the states in S2 are s6
though s9 ; and S3 is composed of s10 through s12 . The resolutions
have also been placed in three subsets: R1 contains r1 through r7 ;
R2 contains r8 through r10 ; and R3 contains r11 through r13 . The
structure of this network can be described simply. States in S1 tend

10

See Kim and Russett (1996) and Voeten (2000) for example.

182

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Fig. 1. Illustrative network and formatted array for states and voting on resolutions.

to vote in support of all resolutions; states in S2 vote in support
of resolutions in R1 and R2 but tend to vote against resolutions in
R3 ; and states in S3 tend support only resolutions in R1 and tend
to oppose resolutions in both R2 and R3 . There are also some votes
not ﬁtting with this general description.
The lower panel of Fig. 1 contains an alternative representation
of exactly the same information but in a formatted array. Black

squares represent votes in support of resolutions and red diamonds
represent votes against resolutions. The array has been formatted
to that members of the above clusters of states and resolutions
are placed together. Solid lines mark the boundaries between the
clusters. The names of the resolutions are written across the top
and the names of states are on the right side of the array. The signed
block structure for this hypothetical example, using the labeling of

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

P for positive blocks and N for negative blocks, is as follows: in the
top row, the blocks are PPP; the blocks in the second row are PPN;
and the blocks in the bottom row are PNN. When the two-mode
networks are large, the network diagrams get to be unwieldy and
difﬁcult to read. For large datasets, the formatted arrays are simpler
to read and form a more compact representation.
The real data for the UNGA voting are more complex in two
ways: (i) trivially, they are much larger and (ii) exceptions are far
more likely to occur than revealed in the hypothetical motivating
example. In short, the real data are messy but, we expect blockmodeling to reveal distinct patterns in the form of positive and
negative blocks, despite expected exceptions. A disadvantage is
that the exceptions will make the network diagrams challenging
to read in the standard blockmodeling format; therefore we will
report the majority of our graphical results using the formatted
(blockmodeling) arrays.
3. Data
We use a dataset of roll call votes for the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) covering the decades before and after the
end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact.11 The
data were divided into four time periods: 1981–1985, late Cold
War; 1986–1990, a ﬁrst transition period; 1991–1995, a second
transition period; and 1996–2001, a “settled” period, albeit at the
juncture of 9/11. As noted above, we select the ﬁrst and last periods
which we label as Time 1 and Time 2, respectively.
We focus on military resolutions because this subset of resolutions is the most substantively appropriate for testing our
coupling of balance of power ideas with relaxed structural balance
theory.12 Given the type of data—international voting data—where
states have overlapping and even conﬂicting loyalties (Turkey
with NATO and the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) for
example)—voting blocs are likely to shift by issue areas. The potential advantage of blockmodeling is that it can identify and deﬁne
blocs by the resolutions favored by the states in those blocs. Other
methods can also accomplish this but blockmodeling has a direct
way of grouping these together for further exploration by representing the underlying network structure in image matrices using
rows of block types (PPP, PPN, etc.).
The Time 1 data set has 141 states and 276 resolutions. While
there were 159 UN member states during this time period, we
deleted 18 states because they were absent for 25% or more of the
votes during this time period. Our second time period (Time 2) had
153 states and 150 resolutions.13 There were 189 UN member states

11
The data were collected by the second author from 2000 to 2002. Roll call votes
from 1983 to 2001 had been digitized. A summary of all resolutions on roll call votes
is found at http://www.un.org/documents/resga.htm and speciﬁcs on roll call votes
are found at: http://unbisnet.un.org/. Roll call votes from 1981 to 1983 were found in
hard copy at Yale University Social Science Library, 140 Prospect Street, Government
Documents collection, United Nations Collection; the Government Librarian was
very helpful. Assistance was also provided by the United Nations Dag Hammarskjold
Library. UN Librarians and Personnel in the Department of Public Information (UN
Headquarters, 1st Avenue between 45th and 46th Street, New York City) were very
helpful in obtaining and verifying information.
12
See http://www.un.org/en/ga/maincommittees/index.shtml (accessed 7/4/11)
for information on the main committees and http://www.un.org/documents/
resga.htm to access the resolutions. Most years contain a summary of the resolutions deliberated upon that year, including information on where the resolution
was debated, e.g., one of the permanent committees or the Plenary; information on
the voting; draft documents that includes sponsorship information and the general
topic of the resolution.
13
There were 129 military resolutions for the period 1996–2000 and 150 if we
included the 21 resolutions for 2001. We experimented with both in case there
were 9/11 effects but found the output to be substantially similar. We report the
129 resolutions for the blockmodeling results because we matched 5 year periods
for both time points.

183

as of 2001; we removed 34 states that were absent for 25% or more
of the votes during this time period. A full list of the names is provided in Appendix A and a summary of the resolutions is provided in
Appendix B. The continual process of decolonization and increase in
membership of newly independent states, including those resulting
from the dissolution of the Soviet Union resulted in an increase of
roughly 30 new member states for our second time period. Because
our focus is on balancing processes and changing alliances, we think
it is important to include all of the new states rather than focus on
the same subset of states for both time periods. This is particularly
important given the enlargement of NATO and the EU with former
Soviet bloc states. The number of resolutions decreased because of
a deliberate effort by the UNGA to reach consensus on resolutions
once the Cold War impediment to international policy-making had
ended. This results in a signiﬁcant reduction in roll call votes. There
were a total of 725 roll call votes during our ﬁrst time period and
406 in our second. Of these, military resolutions were the most
numerous (38% and 37% respectively), highlighting the importance
of these issues to the UN mandate to promote international peace
and security.
Coding the votes cast on military (and other types of) resolutions
is not straightforward. Ideally, there are only votes for a resolution and votes against a resolution. However, states can abstain
from voting on certain resolutions and their representatives may
choose to be absent when a vote is taken on other resolutions. These
absences could be coded as 0, but this decision would obscure deliberate absences. Interviews with UN delegates and permanent UNGA
personnel14 indicate that frequently absences can be grouped with
abstentions as a “weak no” vote. Therefore we made the choice of
ﬁrst removing all countries that were absent 25% or more of the
time for a given subset of roll call votes. We then recoded the few
remaining absences as a “−1”. We coded votes in support of a resolution as “+1”. We believe this coding accurately captures state
voting patterns.
4. Methods
4.1. Direct signed blockmodeling
Signed blockmodeling is a label for the partitioning of signed networks and direct signed blockmodeling is the approach based on the
ideas described in Sections 2.1–2.4 and used here. The Doreian and
Mrvar algorithm for doing this has the following features:
1. The measure of inconsistency described earlier can be used as
a criterion function (Doreian et al., 2005) measuring departures
from exact balance. Departures from exact balance take only two
forms: positive ties in negative blocks and negative ties in positive blocks. As before, N denotes the number of negative ties in
positive blocks and P denote the number of positive ties in negative blocks. Let C denote a clustering of the vertices into mutually
exclusive subsets and let P(C) denote the value of the criterion
function for that clustering, C, then, P(C) = ˛N + (1 − ˛)P where
0 < ˛ < 1.
2. Two ranges and one value for ␣ can be distinguished: (i)
0 < ˛ < 0.5 (where positive inconsistencies are weighted more

14
The second author interviewed a number of UN delegates and permanent personnel when she collected her voting data during the 2001 UNGA session. Without
exception, interviewees noted that both an “abstain” and frequently an absence was
a “weak no” vote. Similarly, Voeten (2000, p. 193) argues that there is little practical
difference between a “no” vote and an abstention. What matters is the willingness
of a state to go on record for supporting a resolution. To separate out a situation of
high absenteeism from a voting choice, we omitted all states absent for 25% of the
time. This took care of the vast majority of absences that would be coded as a “no”
vote.

184

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

heavily); (ii) ˛ = 0.5 (where positive and negative inconsistencies are weighted equally); and iii) 0.5 < ˛ < 1 (where negative
inconsistencies are weighted more heavily).
3. There is a relocation algorithm that is based on a neighborhood of
a clustering, C, deﬁned by two transformations: (i) the movement
of one vertex from one plus-set to another plus-set in C; and (ii)
the interchange of two vertices between two plus sets in C. Given
a partition, C, this leads to a local optimization procedure where
these two types of transformations are the only ones considered.
4. Given a partition, C, the effect of these local transformations is
examined in terms of their impact on P(C). If a transformation
leads to another clustering, C , such that P(C) > P(C ) for C in the
neighborhood of C, then C replaces C as the active clustering.
This is continued until no further drop in the value of criterion
function is possible.
5. The whole procedure is repeated many times15 (because it is a
local optimization procedure) until no further improvement is
possible. The ﬁnal partition(s) is (are) the optimal16 partition(s)
where optimal means only that the partition the minimal value
of the criterion function.
For structural balance, the existence of a globally minimized partition is guaranteed, regardless of the size of the network. We use k
to denote the number of subsets in a partition (clustering) C where
1 ≤ k ≤ n and n denotes the number of vertices in the network. A
partition with (k + 1) clusters is an adjacent partition. Doreian et al.
(2005, p. 305) provide:
Theorem 3. For any signed network (G, ), there will be a unique
lowest value of the criterion function, denoted by P(Cmin ), that occurs
for partitions with k subsets or adjacent partitions.17
Note that a unique minimum value, P(Cmin ), does not imply that
there is one unique partition with this optimal value. Theorems 1
and 2 formed a major development for the formulation of structural balance and Theorem 3 provides a clear statement about the
behavior of the criterion function. Brusco et al. (2011) showed
that, for networks where n ≤ 40, the local optimization procedure locates the optimal partition(s) of signed one-mode networks.
However, for relaxed structural balance, while the criterion function is deﬁned in the same fashion, its behavior as the number of
clusters, k, is increased is different. Denoting the value of the optimal value of the criterion function for partitions with k clusters by
P(Ck ), Doreian and Mrvar (2009) prove:
Theorem 4. For establishing optimal partitions using the relaxed
structural balance blockmodel, the values of P(Ck ) decline monotonically as k increases.
The nice behavior of the criterion function for structural balance
(Theorem 3) is lost when relaxed structural balance is considered
(unless an empirical network conforms to, or closely approximates,
structural balance).18 The declining monotonic property of the

15

At a minimum, we recommend using many thousands of repetitions.
There are two meanings for this term. One is the best that was found by using the
local optimization method (thus far). A more general meaning for optimal partition
is for the globally optimal partition(s)—which might not be obtained in a speciﬁc
analysis. All theorems regarding optimal partitions apply for the latter meaning of
this term.
17
The result is intuitively reasonable. If k = 1, then every negative tie is an inconsistency and, at the other extreme, if k = n, then every positive tie is an inconsistency. As
k increases from 1, in general, P(C) decreases monotonically until (P(Cmin )) is reached
and as k is increased further then the value of P(C) increases. However, it is possible
that for adjacent partitions the value of P(C) remains at the optimal value and the
plot of P(C) against k is ﬂat for these values before increasing as k is increased.
18
Given a partition whose criterion function is optimal value is 0 under structural
balance; increases in the value of k, under relaxed structural balance will produce
more ﬁne grained partitions with the same value of the criterion function. If the
16

criterion function for relaxed structural balance for signed onemode networks holds also for signed two-mode networks. Mrvar
and Doreian (2009) prove:
Theorem 5. Given a signed two-mode network G = (U, V, E) and a
set of optimal partitions for the (k1 , k2 )-partitions of G, with 1 ≤ k1 ≤ n1
and with 1 ≤ k2 ≤ n2 , the optimal values of P(C) decline monotonically
with k1 for each value of k2 and monotonically with k2 for each value
of k1 .
While relaxed structural balance, as a generalization of structural balance, has useful properties that include being the
foundation of a method for partitioning signed two-mode networks, the behavior of the criterion function in relation to k1 and
k2 , as described in Theorem 5, ushers in some serious problems.
These problems are the methodological focus of this paper. To state
the ﬁrst problem, we deﬁne the grain of a partition in terms of the
number of clusters in a partition (for both one-mode and two-mode
networks). Loosely, partitions having many clusters are ﬁne-grained
and partitions with few clusters are coarse-grained. The minimum
value of the criterion function for relaxed structural balance is 0
and this value must occur when every vertex is a singleton in a
cluster. This is the most ﬁne-grained partition possible but is useless as a blockmodel. Empirically, it is possible that this value is
reached for extremely ﬁne grained partitions that also have little
utility for blockmodeling. This implies that to establish a reasonable coarse-grained partition, some judgment is required.19 When
the implicit 3D plot (of the criterion function against k1 and k2 )
becomes ﬂatter it suggests that the coarsest-grained partition for
this ﬂattened curve is an appropriate partition. Second, for signed
networks that have the size of the UNGA voting arrays considered
here, the guarantee offered by the results of Brusco et al. (2011) no
longer holds.20 It follows that the resulting partitions be subject to
additional scrutiny in an effort to ensure a useful partition. In general, this involves some consideration of alternative partitions near
a candidate partition. Finally, using the local optimization algorithm includes some searching over different values of k1 and k2 is
computationally demanding when k1 and k2 are large.21 It follows
that partitioning over large ranges of k1 and k2 would be extremely
time consuming. Indirect blockmodeling may be a way of seeking
guidance as to where to focus attention in terms of k1 and k2 .
4.2. Indirect signed blockmodeling
Doreian et al. (2005) distinguish direct blockmodeling, as
described above, from indirect blockmodeling where summaries
of the data, in the form of (dis)similarity measures constructed
from a network, are used to partition the network data with some
standard clustering method (Doreian et al., 2005, pp. 177–84).

optimized value of the criterion function under structural balance is not 0 then,
under relaxed structural balance, the value of P(C) will decline monotonically, consistent with Theorem 4.
19
The same property holds for structural equivalence although this is seldom
recognized.
20
For the smaller networks that Brusco et al. (2011) considered, the results of
using the local optimization algorithm were compared with those obtained from
an exact (branch-and-bound) algorithm guaranteed to identify the optimal partitions. In all of the networks they considered, the returned partitions from both
algorithms were identical. Alas, the exact algorithm is completely impractical for
large networks and such comparisons cannot be made. While this suggests another
deﬁnition of ‘large’—a signed network is large (n > 40 for one-mode networks) when
this guarantee is no longer available—we think that this is overly conservative with
‘large’ being used for rather small networks.
21
For the P4 data with k1 = 7 and k2 = 7 100,000 repetitions, using an HP HDX18
Notebook PC with an Intel Core 2 CPU Q9000 running at 2.00 GHz and with installed
memory of 4.96 GB, a single run took about 4 h and 40 min. Seeking more efﬁcient
methods seems merited provided that the resulting partitions are the best possible
partitions.

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Doreian et al. (1994) compared the direct and indirect approaches
for some well known small networks. They report that, most of
the time, the direct approach produced better ﬁtting partitions,
in terms of the values of the criterion function reported for each
method, than those obtained by the indirect approach. Further,
the indirect approach never outperformed the direct approach for
these small networks. However, the direct blockmodeling approach
can be extremely burdensome computationally and this problem
becomes acute as network sizes increases. Given that the signed
UNGA voting data set that we use is much larger than the signed
networks considered hitherto, it seems prudent to consider indirect
signed blockmodeling—blockmodeling signed data using indirect
methods—as well.
The data described in Section 3 are very close to being complete
(having zero or near-zero null ties). One faster indirect way of partitioning the rows and columns is to partition them separately and
then fuse the two partitions to form a joint partition of the twomode signed network. For the rows, we computed the Euclidean
distance22 for the vectors of each row. Letting gik denote the (i, k)
element of G, the Euclidean
distance between ui and uj , d(ui , uj ), is
obtained from d2 (ui , uj ) = (gik – gjk )2 and the Euclidean
 distance
between vi and vj , d(vi , vj ), is obtained from d2 (vi , uj ) = (gki – gkj )2
in separate computations. These were used as input for a standard
hierarchical clustering program where we used the Ward clustering
method (Ward, 1963). The two hierarchical clustering algorithms
each produce a dendrogram that can be visually inspected to determine the number of clusters (k1 for rows and k2 for columns). Of
course, there is ﬂexibility here and this introduces another element
of judgment.
4.3. Comparing partitions
Our primary goal is to establish blockmodels of signed twomode data that are meaningful and well deﬁned. This implies that
comparisons of partitions have to be made. These comparisons arise
in three ways. First, given the establishment of a blockmodeling
partition, it is necessary to establish that it is better than a random partition with the same numbers of clusters. Second, given the
result of Theorem 5, and the implication that an element of judgment is needed to choose from among ﬁtted blockmodels (with
different values of k1 and k2 ). Given a move from a coarse-grained
partition to a more ﬁne-grained partition—where Theorem 5 points
to a smaller value of the criterion function for the ﬁner-grained
partition—it is necessary to check that the difference is large enough
to justify the move. Third, as we do use other partitioning methods, we need a way of comparing partitions obtained from using
different methods.
Direct blockmodeling has a trio of criteria for evaluating partitions: (i) the form of the blockmodel in terms of its block structure;
(ii) the agreement (or not) of the composition of the clusters; and
(iii) the value of the criterion function implied by each partition.
The blockmodeling approach is designed to use all of the signed
two-mode data directly and does not use a low(er) dimensional
representation. The expectation is that blockmodeling will produce better partitions in the sense of: (i) having a lower value of
the criterion function, P(C); (ii) will have a cleaner block structure (more blocks in their correct location); and (iii) will have
more coherent—internally, more consistent—blocks in the returned
blockmodel. However, given the problems outlined in Section 4.1,
there is no guarantee that this will be the case. The size of the data
sets and the computational burden that they imply for the blockmodeling approach can mean that the optimal partition(s) are not

22
Because the data are so close to being complete, Euclidean distance can be used
even though for most incomplete signed data sets it cannot be used fruitfully.

185

reached. The value of P(C) for all of the partitions that we report is
one criterion for evaluating the reported partitions. The smaller the
value of P(C), the better is the partition with that value. A second
criterion measures the consistency of the composition of the clusters in a partition. The gold standard for this is the Adjusted Rand
Index (ARI): see Hubert and Arabie, 1985; Saporta and Youness,
2002; Warrens, 2008; and Santos and Embrechts, 2009. Here we
use the ARI to measure the correspondence of two partitions of the
rows and columns of a partition of a two-mode structure.
Steinley (2004), based on an extended simulation study, has provided a set of guidelines for assessing the correspondence (or not)
of two partitions of a set of vertices. For ARI ≥ 0.9, the correspondence between partitions is deemed excellent. When 0.9 > ARI > 0.8,
the correspondence is said to be acceptable. For this range of the values of ARI, the memberships of the two partitions are deemed to
be close enough to be considered the same. For lower values of ARI
(ARI ≤ 0.8) the correspondence of the two partitions is unacceptable.
The blockmodeling approach starts with a random partition of
the vertices in a two-mode network and proceeds from there. An
obvious question for any established partition is simple to state:
does it differ from a random partition of the vertices? In Pajek, a
random partition of the vertices into k1 clusters of rows and k2
clusters of columns produces k1 clusters of about the same size
(n1 /k1 ) of the rows and k2 clusters of columns of about the same
size (n2 /k2 ) of the columns. The ARI can be used to measure the
difference in the composition of the (starting) clusters and the ones
established by blockmodeling. In general, the sizes of row clusters
for the optimal partitions differ from the sizes of the random row
clusters, as is the case for columns. Another measure of departures
from randomness is to use randomly generated clusters having the
same sizes as were established for the optimal partition.23
In the blockmodeling procedure, a value of the criterion function for the initial random partition is computed. We denote this
value by P(Cr ) and the value of the optimal criterion function by
P(Co ). A simple measure of the difference between these two values of the criterion function is a proportional reduction of error
measure: PRE = (P(Cr ) − P(Co ))/P(Cr ). Following experiments with
random networks, values of PRE ≥ 0.2 indicate departures from randomness and are therefore noteworthy. When viable partitions
were obtained using other methods either ARI or P(Cr ) are used
as evaluative criteria.
5. Results
Here, we present our blockmodeling results and stress two features of this approach. One is that blockmodeling is a full information
approach in the sense that all of the data are analyzed all of the time.
No data reduction occurs when partitioning because the method
uses no summaries of the data. Second, as used here, the focus is
placed on the data being two-mode data. Both clusters of states and
clusters of resolutions are important: the two partitions (of states
and resolutions) get their full coherence when they are considered
together.
5.1. Time 1: Late cold war period
5.1.1. Partitioning the full array of states and resolutions
Fitting blockmodels to a network array can be done within
two distinct strategies. One is purely inductive and the other uses
pre-speciﬁcation. An inductive speciﬁcation for signed two-mode

23
For example, if there are 100 vertices and a random partition is created, the
sizes of the clusters are 34, 33 and 33. But if the blockmodeling partition returned
clusters of sizes 60, 30 and 10, this alternative value of ARI is computed with a
randomly created partition into clusters with sizes of 60, 30 and 10.

186

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

networks states only that there will be positive or negative blocks.
In contrast, pre-speciﬁcation can be used when analysts possess substantive or empirical knowledge (Doreian et al., 2005, pp.
233–5) regarding the network to which blockmodels can be ﬁtted.
Using pre-speciﬁcation requires, ahead of analysis, the statement of a partial or complete blockmodel. A complete blockmodel
gives the distribution of all block types in their locations within
the blockmodel. Although the term model based is often used to
describe only statistical modeling where one or more equations or
some probability structure are used, blockmodeling is model based
when a complete blockmodel is pre-speciﬁed. The nature of UNGA
voting dictates that some form of pre-speciﬁcation be used. The
reason is simple. For Time 1 there are 30,468 positive votes and
8,448 negative votes implying that the proportion of positive votes
is 0.783. The inductive use of blockmodeling (with only P and N
blocks speciﬁed) leads to a blockmodel with only P blocks.
Of course, the form of the actual blockmodel becomes important and formulating one ahead of time is difﬁcult. We know that
some states tend to vote in support of the majority of resolutions
while no states vote against all resolutions. Other states vote in
ways that span a range between these extremes. This leads to a
simple speciﬁcation that takes the following form when expressed
in block types:
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S7

R1

R2

R3

R4

R5

R6

R7

P
P
P
P
P
P
P

P
P
P
P
P
P
N

P
P
P
P
P
N
N

P
P
P
P
N
N
N

P
P
P
N
N
N
N

P
P
N
N
N
N
N

P
N
N
N
N
N
N

We call this a generic blockmodel form regardless of the number
of clusters. To simplify notation, we write k = k1 = k2 . In the above
illustration, k = 7. The ﬁrst row of positive (P) blocks is for states
in cluster S1 that tended to support all resolutions. In contrast,
the row corresponding to cluster S7 is for states voting against all
resolutions except those in cluster R1 . The remaining rows have systematic differences regarding the number of resolutions that are
supported and opposed by the states in each of the row clusters.
Similarly, resolutions differ systematically in the ways that states
support or oppose them.
The results from using the generic pre-speciﬁed blockmodel are
shown in Table 1A. Six variants of the generic pre-speciﬁcation are
shown. The number of partitions, the values of the criterion function, and the values of the ﬁt indices (PRE and ARI) are shown. The
decline in the values of the criterion function is consistent with
Theorem 5 and the declines show diminishing returns from increasing the number of clusters.24 Also, the behavior of PRE and ARI make
it clear that the obtained partitions are far from random partitions.
All looks good with this information until we compare the values
of the criterion function for the indirect approach using Euclidean
distance whose implied criterion function values are shown in the
last column. In the main, the performance using Euclidean distance
is poor. Not only are the implied values of the criterion function
higher, the blockmodel structures have duplicate rows and columns
of block types which imply that there are many other partitions
with equally well ﬁtting blockmodels. The surprise comes with the
(7, 7) partition where the criterion function is lower than for using
the generic blockmodel.
Table 1B shows the implied blockmodel for the Euclidean (7, 7)
partition where, in contrast to the generic blockmodel, there are
some P blocks among the N blocks in the lower right of the array

24
The values of the criterion function for the (8, 8), (9, 9) and (10, 10) partitions
are 2148, 2137.5 and 2124 respectively.

of blocks. The generic blockmodel was quite good but not good
enough for the Time 1 voting array. As a result, we used it as an
empirically based pre-speciﬁed blockmodel and ﬁtted that to the
data. The results are shown in Table 1C. The partition is unique
and the criterion function has dropped even further to 1881.5 and,
again, the PRE and ARI indices conform that the partition is far
from random. Further, the value of the ARI when this partition is
compared with the partition from the generic blockmodel is 0.552
indicating that the two are different partitions.
We show the partition of the full set of states and military resolutions for Time 1 in Appendix C (Fig. C1) to demonstrate how the
empirically informed pre-speciﬁcation in Table 1 is used. It shows the
nature of the partition even though the labels for states and resolutions cannot be read. The black squares represent positive votes
and the red diamonds represent negative votes. There is a clear
patterning where there are concentrations of ties of a type within
blocks. Table 2 gives the partition of the states25 and Table C1 gives
the partition of resolutions. In short, this gives the ‘big picture’ of
key voting clusters. This overall partition provides the departure
point for focusing on parts within the big picture.
We note that the clusters of states labeled S5 and S6 feature
primarily the Industrialized (and mainly Western) states. Most
members of NATO are in S6 including the US. The cluster labeled
S7 has the (former) Soviet Union, members of the Warsaw Pact and
other leftist/communist states. The remaining clusters have the rest
of the world’s states that are in the dataset. The clusters of resolutions reported in Table 3 are labeled R1 through R7 . The states in S6
solidly oppose the resolutions in R3 , R4 , R6 , and R7 . The four states
in S5 have the same pattern except for tending to support the resolutions in R3 . The states in S7 and S6 tend to vote in support of
resolutions in R1 —as do all states—and against those in R6 but for
resolutions on all of the other ﬁve clusters of resolutions their voting is diametrically opposed. The states in S4 tend to support all
resolutions except those in R5 (although the resolutions in R2 draw
a mixed response from this set of states). States in S2 tend to oppose
resolutions in R7 and support those in the remaining clusters while
states in S1 tend to support all resolutions.
In addition to obtaining clusters of states as potential blocs (not
blocks), and the clusters of the resolutions, this two-mode partition opens the way to examining simultaneously the states and
resolutions to facilitate the exploration of the exact nature of the
resolutions that distinguished the states that oppose or support
them.26
We noted earlier that 78% of the votes cast at Time 1 were positive. Blocks of a signed blockmodel are distinguished as positive
or null blocks. Well ﬁtting blockmodels ought to have blocks that
are ﬁlled with ties having the same sign: positive blocks have primarily positive ties and negative blocks primarily have negative
ties. Table 3 presents the block densities of the ties consistent with
the block type for each block together with a label for its sign. The
higher the density of the correctly signed ties in a block, the fewer
inconsistencies this block contributes to the criterion function. For
a well ﬁtting blockmodel, positive blocks must have densities well
above 0.78 and negative blocks must have densities well above 0.22.
There are 28 (bolded) blocks having densities above 0.9. Of these,
20 of them are positive blocks and 8 are negative blocks. They provide evidence that the blockmodel partition in Fig. C1 has created
many blocks with ties largely of the same sign. The 20 P blocks have

25
The partitioning returned Papua New Guinea as a singleton in a cluster. We do
not take this seriously as a real cluster and treat it as not belonging to any potential
voting bloc. However, we take some comfort in noting that the methods we use did
distinguish it from all of the identiﬁed voting blocs.
26
This is done elsewhere because the focus here is on the methods that facilitate
such comparisons.

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

187

Table 1
Summary of the blockmodeling partitioning for Time 1.
Partition

Number of partitions

Value of criterion function

(A) Summary output and ﬁt indices for Time 1
1
(2, 2)
(3, 3)
1
(4, 4)
1
(5, 5)
4
4
(6, 6)
2
(7, 7)
R1
(B) Inductively established blockmodel
S1
P
S2
P
S3
P
S4
P
S5
P
S6
P
S7
P
Partition

Fit indices

2743.5
2452.0
2353.0
2262.5
2197.5
2164.0

Euclidean criterion function values

PRE

ARI

0.611
0.686
0.717
0.734
0.762
0.753

0.344
0.204
0.734
0.111
0.096
0.080

2934.0
2648.0
2353.0
2284.0
2284.0
2117.5

R2

R3

R4

R5

R6

R7

P
P
P
P
P
P
N

P
P
P
P
P
N
P

P
P
P
P
N
N
P

P
P
P
N
P
P
N

P
P
N
P
N
N
N

P
N
N
P
N
N
P

Number of partitions

(C) The ﬁnal ﬁtted blockmodel for Time 1
1
(7, 7)

Value of criterion function

Fit indices

1881.5

densities well above the overall density of 0.78 for positive ties and
the 8 N blocks are well above the overall density of 0.22 for negative ties. The concentration of negative ties primarily into only 8 N
blocks is the most interesting because they show joint opposition to
resolutions supported by most other states.
While Fig. 2 presents the big picture of alliances, blockmodeling also permits “drilling down” to examine what issues cause
particular states to depart from the voting patterns of other bloc
members. This examination could be driven by an interest in particular blocs, interest in speciﬁc states, or voting cohesion of regional,

PRE

ARI

0.748

0.456

international, or cross-regional organizations such as the EU, NATO,
or the OIC.
5.1.2. Some detailed further partitions
One notable feature of Table 3 is that six of the blocks for
the Leftist or Communist states of the era (in the cluster labeled
S7 in Table 3) have block densities above 0.9 (and the seventh
has a density of 0.869) showing highly consistent bloc voting.
Indeed, these densities point to this bloc has having the most consistently coherent voting pattern illustrative of Cold War power

Table 2
Seven clusters of states from Fig. 2.
S1
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Bolivia
Botswana
Burundi
Cameroon
CenAfrRep
Chad
Djibouti
Ecuador
Egypt
Gabon
Ghana
Guinea
Guyana
Iran
Iraq
Jordan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali

Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Morocco
Niger
Nigeria
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Qatar
Romania
Rwanda
SaudiArabia
Senegal
SierraLeone
Somalia
SriLanka
Sudan
Thailand
Togo
TrinidadTobago
Tunisia
UAE
URTanzania
Venezuela
Zambia

S2

S4

S5

S6

S7

Bahamas
BurmaMyanmar
Chile
China
Colombia
CostaRica
CotedIvoire
DKCambodia
DominicanRep
ElSalvador
Fiji
Guatemala
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Liberia
Malawi
Nepal
Paraguay
Philippines
Singapore
StLucia
Suriname
Uruguay
ZaireDRC

Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Benin
Bhutan
Brazil
CapeVerde
Congo
Cyprus
Ethiopia
GuineaBissau
Indonesia
LibyanAJ
Madagascar
Mexico
Nicaragua
SaoTomePrinc
SyrianArabRe
UVBurkinoFas
Uganda
Yemen
Yugoslavia

Austria
Finland
Greece
Ireland
Sweden

Australia
Belgium
Canada
Denmark
France
GerFedRep
Iceland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Luxembourg
Netherlands
NewZealand
Norway
Portugal
Spain
Turkey
UK
US

Afghanistan
Bulgaria
ByeloBelarus
Cuba
Czech
DemYemen
GerDemRep
Hungary
India
Laos
Mongolia
Mozambique
Poland
USSRussianFe
Ukraine
Vietnam

Note: A singleton cluster S3 (with Papua New Guinea) was identiﬁed but excluded from this and subsequent tables.

188

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Table 3
Block densities for the 42 blocks in Fig. 2.

S1
S2
S4
S5
S6
S7

R1

R2

R3

R4

R5

P
0.958
P
0.898
P
0.931
P
0.983
P
0.848
P
0.951

P
0.929
P
0.918
P
0.778
P
0.992
P
0.905
N
0.913

P
0.961
P
0.845
P
0.966
P
0.904
N
0.856
P
0.986

P
0.932
P
0.789
P
0.954
N
0.833
N
0.952
P
0.992

P
0.838
P
0.863
N
0.770
P
0.789
P
0.889
N
0.977

The singleton cluster (S3 ) was removed but the labels for Clusters S4 , S5 , S6 and S7 were retained. Bolded densities are all above 0.9.

Fig. 2. Negative blocks for communist and leftist states voting against resolutions for Time 1.

R6

R7

P
0.947
P
0.836
P
0.914
N
0.680
N
0.952
N
0.869

P
0.769
N
0.761
P
0.868
N
0.790
N
0.955
P
0.982

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

189

Fig. 3. Details Fig. 4 negative voting blocks for the western and industrial states for Time 1.

struggles. Although the Western and/or Industrial states generally
vote against military resolutions, particularly those that impact
their military power, there are resolutions that the Communist
bloc also votes against in consistent fashion. This is shown in
Fig. 3 for the three negative blocks for these states. The ﬁrst two
blocks in Fig. 2 are reproduced as is from Fig. C1, but the third
has been reﬁned slightly (via blockmodeling) to show that both
India and the Democratic Republic of the Yemen are slightly different in their detailed voting patterns. The resolutions identifying

this block deﬁne the issues where these two states depart from
the other members of the larger bloc. These two states tended
to support issues related to disarmament and development and
complete disarmament. We include this to show that, if needed
and relevant, more detailed selective partitioning is possible to
identify both the clusters of states and resolutions for further
study, including any implications for balancing processes involving military resolutions as the soft balancing counterpart to hard
balancing.

190

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Fig. 4. Partition of one bloc of states from the non-western states and resolutions in R7.

Fig. 3 presents some corresponding formatted arrays for the
Western, NATO and/or Industrial states for three of the clusters
of resolutions that they vote against as a voting bloc. In the big
picture of Fig. C1, these are simply negative blocks of votes illustrating voting patterns typical of Cold War voting where alliances
oppose one another on military policy issues. As noted above, the
majority of Western states oppose the majority of military resolutions (particularly those on disarmament—a direct threat to their

military power). Yet the Western bloc—including NATO memberstates—are divided on several resolutions, illustrating that states
voted for other reasons than standing solidly with alliance members. For example, the block of resolutions deﬁned by the cluster
R3 shows a subset of 23 resolutions for which 5 states (Australia,
Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Spain—all but Australia are NATO
member states) tend to support. In the second panel of Fig. 3, there
are 7 resolutions supported by Portugal, Spain and Turkey that

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

other members of the EU and NATO vote against. And in the ﬁnal
panel of Fig. 4, there are 17 resolutions where Turkey votes in opposition to the majority of Western states. The resolutions involving
these positive votes by Turkey reﬂect a conﬂict between NATO and
OIC interests. In each of these three examples, the joint partition
of states and resolutions provide important information on voting
(dis)similarity. We expected on the whole during this period to ﬁnd
voting deﬁned largely by the two Cold War military alliances—and
this was conﬁrmed. We also found that some issues divided alliance
members and the full information provided by our approach allows
the interested researcher to explore the factors that lead to this
divide.
Examining the top row of Table 3, for a cluster of non-aligned
member states suggests that the block deﬁned by S1 and R7 (with a
positive tie density of 0.769) has enough negative ties (467 of them)
that merit further attention. The blockmodel in Fig. 4 shows that
there is some pattern to these ties (PRE = 0.626 and ARI = 0.162) in
the sense of there being clear N blocks in an otherwise large P block
for a coarser-grained partition. Again, the clusters of resolutions
and states can be examined further to determine what links these
states to oppose resolutions together that are supported by most
other non-aligned member states.
5.1.3. Balancing of power revealed
As we noted earlier, the blockmodeling provides full information (on states and resolutions) which provides a basis for further
exploration, including locating clear balancing processes among rival
alliances. Fig. 6 provides an example of doing this. We look more
closely at the following clusters: S6 (the primary Western bloc containing most of the NATO members) and S7 (contains Warsaw Pact
Soviet bloc members and allies) from Table 2 and R7 (the resolutions that the Western bloc opposes and the Soviet bloc supports)
from Table 3. These are highlighted in the lower right part of the
overall partitioned array in Fig. C1. Denoting this two-mode subnetwork by G, we multiply it by its transpose to obtain GGT which
we depict as a valued and signed one-mode network27 for states.
This is drawn in the top panel of Fig. 5 with the S6 (Western, largely
NATO member) states depicted by circles on the right and S7 (Soviet
bloc and allied) states depicted as squares in the left—a clear reﬂection of the Cold War political divide that was present at Time 1. All
but one of the positive ties are within these two clusters of states.
The only exception is a positive tie between India and Turkey. The
lower panel of Fig. 6 shows how this positive tie was generated
(e.g., the pattern of agreement on some resolutions).
Turkey votes with the ‘NATO bloc’ on most issues (25 of 39 resolutions); but diverges on a number of others for this subset of
resolutions.28 Similarly, India votes largely in alignment with Soviet
bloc and allied states (29 of 39 resolutions).29 India and Turkey vote
identically on the 24 (14 for Turkey and 10 for India) resolutions for
which they vote differently than their respective bloc members. An
advantage of blockmodeling is the ability to identify speciﬁc resolutions which both identify bloc voting and the issues that divide
bloc members. Once identiﬁed, the content of the resolutions and
the temporary coalitions supporting them can be explored to pinpoint the reasons for the divergence and to identify issues that can
potentially fracture alliances.

27
We do not use the values in drawing Fig. 6 but they are useful for subsequent
analyses.
28
Turkey votes differently from its NATO and Western allies on the following
14 resolutions: 40/6, 40/93, 40/96D, 40/168A, 40/168B, 39/14, 38/69, 38/180A,
38/180D, 38/180E, 37/82, 36/27, 36/98 and 36/226A.
29
India votes differently from Soviet and allied states on the following 10 resolutions: 40/18, 40/85, 40/92A, 40/94I, 39/57, 39/65B, 39/151I, 38/187A, 38/188F and
36/92J.

191

5.2. Time 2: Post cold war period
Fig. 6 contains the detailed unique (7, 7) partition for Time 2
that was obtained using the generic pre-speciﬁed blockmodel, and
Table 4 lists the seven clusters of states. The pattern is similar to
that of the Cold War period in identifying clear blocks of states
that voted highly similar (as well as the divergences from bloc voting). It is also similar in that the Western or developed states are
more likely to vote against military resolutions in the UNGA and to
vote as a block. There are a number of important differences, however. First, S6 is now composed of both Western European states
and newly independent Eastern and Central European states that
formed after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia.
Many of these states have now been incorporated into both the EU
and NATO. Interestingly, we also see a distinct voting pattern of the
US, which votes more independently from the rest of the developed
and Western states and quite similarly with Israel (in S7 ). In some
ways, the blocks reﬂect Huntington’s “clash of civilizations” thesis
in that there is a clearly expanded group of largely Western states
that vote quite distinctly from “the rest” on these military issues.
Blockmodeling allows further drilling down to identify the distinct cluster of resolutions that divide these Western/developed
states from each other and from the rest of UN member-states. This
feature is useful for identifying the issues for which NATO members
are united and those which may suggest some balancing between
the US (as the sole military hegemon) and EU-members states. A
more in-depth exploration of this balancing process is beyond the
scope of this paper but we have provided the tools by which this
can be pursued.
Table 5 contains the summary of ﬁtting this pre-speciﬁed blockmodel. As was the case for Time 1, the criterion function drops in a
fashion consistent with Theorem 5. The ﬁt statistics show that each
obtained partition for the grains shown in the table is far from being
random: these blocks of voting ties represent real differences in the
patterns of voting by states within clusters. Again, there are diminishing returns for increasing the number of clusters and further
partitioning of selected blocks is a better strategy than increasing
the number of clusters for the full partitioning. In contrast to Time
1, the indirect blockmodels perform poorly for all grains (2 ≤ k ≤ 7).
The values of the criterion function are higher and there are identical rows and columns of block types.30 The computed value for
the second ARI is 0.118 for the two (7, 7) partitions, an extremely
low value indicating that the indirect and direct (7, 7) partitions are
very different.
5.3. Partial summary
A theoretical goal of our paper was to demonstrate the utility of
the relaxed structural balance approach to the analysis of UNGA
roll call votes, in potentially coupling balance of power theory
in international relations with Heider’s structural balance theory.
Both theories share an assumption of a tendency towards balance
among multiple actors resulting in an alliance formation. International relations scholars have proposed the idea of “soft power”
balancing through norms, and adopted resolutions represent a consensus on norms underlying particular policy recommendations
regarding issues of interest to the international community. Voting
on these military resolutions provide information on the coalitions
that support or oppose particular norms about the use of military
power by UN member-states. Examining the roll call votes on military issues at two time points spanning the Cold War political

30
This helps account for the criterion function being unchanged for the (3, 3), (4,
4), and (5, 5) partitions because splitting a block into blocks with the same sign will
not change the value of the criterion function.

192

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Fig. 5. The one-mode network for S6 and S7 based on R7 and the two-mode network for S6 , S7 and R7 .

ideological divide illustrated changing coalitions after a major
shock to the international system. The overall structure of state
relations impacted the relations among coalition members and the
balance of power among them. As might be expected, the US and EU
member states vote more similarly than other UN-member states
overall, but also less similarly than they did during the Cold War
when they shared a common enemy. We argue that our technique

and results provide an important ﬁrst step in exploring the coupling
of these two important theories, and encourage other scholars to
continue in this direction.
We also progressed in our methodological goals, namely, identiﬁcation of and solutions for problems with applying the relaxed
structural balance approach to large signed two-mode data. We
demonstrated that direct signed blockmodeling is very useful for

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

193

Fig. 6. A partition of the full set of military resolutions for Time 2.

partitioning larger signed two-mode networks, but we also identiﬁed several methodological issues that must be resolved. We
suggested several solutions, and found that despite the problems highlighted, the results produced are coherent, and reﬂect
divisions located in prior UNGA voting analyses for both time periods examined. However, despite having provided a substantively
driven method that produces coherent and useful partitions of
signed two-mode data, and illustrating how blockmodeling can
identify smaller clusters that may be fruitful for examining the
implications of temporary or more permanent coalitions, several problems remain. First, when the data arrays are large, the

partitions obtained by using direct blockmodeling methods
required long computational times, which is problematic in two
ways: the length of time involved, and the difﬁculty with obtaining
optimal partitions if either the time for the partitioning is reduced
or the size of the two-mode array is raised too much. Second, we
were surprised to ﬁnd that the result for the (indirect) Euclidean
distance (7, 7) partition was superior to the direct partition for the
Time 1. This was a salutary reminder that the direct blockmodeling
method need not always locate the best partition. In this instance,
using indirect blockmodeling had great value in not only providing a better ﬁtting partition but also in providing a pre-speciﬁed

194

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Table 4
Seven Clusters of States corresponding to Fig. 6.
S1 (N = 35)

S2 (N = 28)

Algeria
Angola
Barbados
Benin
Bhutan
Bolivia
BruneiDar
BurmaMyanmar
CapeVerde
China
Cuba
Egypt
EquatorialGuinea
Fiji
Guinea
Haiti
Indonesia
Iran

Lebanon
LibyanAJ
Malaysia
Mexico
Namibia
Nepal
Oman
Pakistan
PapuaNewGuinea
StLucia
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
SyrianArabRep
Vietnam
Yemen
Zimbabwe

S3 (N = 29)

AntiguaBarbuda
Bangladesh
Belize
Botswana
UVBurkinoFaso
Cameroon
Colombia
CotedIvoire
Ecuador
Ethiopia
Gabon
Grenada
Guyana
India
Jamaica
Kenya
Laos
Madagascar

S4 (N = 6)

S5 (N = 9)

S6 (N = 44)

Brazil
Paraguay
Samoa
SolomonIslands
SouthAfrica
Uruguay

Australia
Azerbaijan
ByeloBelarus
Georgia
Japan
Kazakhstan
NewZealand
Tajikistan
Ukraine

Albania
Andorra
Argentina
Armenia
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech
Denmark
Estonia
Finland

Mongolia
Mozambique
Senegal
Singapore
SriLanka
Thailand
Togo
Uganda
URTanzania
Zambia

Bahamas
Bahrain
Chile
CostaRica
Djibouti
DominicanRep
ElSalvador
Eritrea
Ghana
Guatemala
Honduras
Jordan
Kuwait
Maldives
Mali
Mauritius
Morocco
Nicaragua

Nigeria
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Qatar
SaudiArabia
SierraLeone
TrinidadTobago
Tunisia
UAE
Venezuela

S7 (N = 2)
France
GerFedRep
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Monaco
Netherlands

blockmodel as the start point for getting an even better ﬁtting
partitions.
It is possible that using methods having a very different rationale
could be useful. Alternative methods also may provide different but
complementary information to help understand bloc voting in the
UNGA. For these reasons, we make a preliminary exploration of
several alternative approaches. We do not claim to take a complete
survey of alternative methods because they are too numerous and a
single paper could not do justice to what they have to offer. Nevertheless, we think it instructional to compare our results with that of
some alternative popular approaches. Not all of these will advance
directly our theoretical interest but they may have the potential to
do so.
6. Alternative clustering approaches
We consider brieﬂy alternative tools for analyzing these data
that have been used in UNGA voting studies or were developed
as different ways of partitioning or representing two-mode data.
However, this not intended as a complete survey.

Norway
Poland
Portugal
RepKorea
RepMoldova
Romania
USSRussianFed
SanMarino
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
TFYRM
Turkey

UK
Uzbekistan

Israel
US

6.1. Geometric data analysis
Spatial models of multivariate data produce graphical geometric displays that facilitate the exploration of multivariate structure.
For example, principal component analysis (PCA) produces a lowdimensional summary of a high-dimensional Euclidean space,
multidimensional scaling (MDS) constructs a low-dimensional
Euclidean representation of dissimilarity data, and multiple correspondence analysis (MCA) constructs a low-dimensional Euclidean
representation of categorical data. Gower and Hand (1995) and
Gower et al. (2011) provide a uniﬁed treatment of these techniques
within the rubric of geometric data analysis.
Spatial models of voting data were introduced and popularized
by Downs (1957) who applied Hotelling’s (1929) model of spatial competition. Such spatial models represent both voters and
candidates as ideal points in a low-dimensional Euclidean space
and posit that voters tend to prefer candidates who are closer
over candidates who are further away. Mapping the ideal points
exempliﬁes an approach called “unfolding” in the MDS literature.
See Groenen (2005: Part III) for an introduction to the notion of

Table 5
Summary of full partitioning of all military resolutions for Time 2.
Partition

(2, 2)
(3, 3)
(4, 4)
(5, 5)
(6, 6)
(7, 7)

Number of partitions

1
1
1
1
1
1

Value of the second ARI for the (7, 7)-partition is 0.118.

Value of criterion function

972.0
932.0
902.0
873.5
859.5
848.0

Fit indices

Euclidean criterion function values

PRE

ARI

0.732
0.758
0.778
0.785
0.807
0.804

0.362
0.245
0.164
0.128
0.102
0.081

972.0
974.5
974.5
974.5
947.0
947.5

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

unfolding. Cahoon (1975) developed an early example of an unfolding method for voting data.
For analysis of legislative voting, candidates are replaced by policy positions—for example, Yea or Nay on a resolution. An unfolding
analysis of legislative voting data represents each legislative representative (voter) and each policy position as an ideal point in a
low-dimensional Euclidean space. The premise is that a voter will
tend to vote Yea if s/he is closer to the ideal point for Yea than s/he
is to the ideal point for Nay. We adopt this approach here.
Not all ideal-point spatial models of legislative voting assign an
ideal point to each policy position. The popular NOMINATE procedure of Poole and Rosenthal, described in detail by Poole (2005),
assigns an ideal point to Yea and posits that voters will to tend to
vote Yea if they are sufﬁciently close to the ideal point and Nay if
they are sufﬁciently far from it. Erik Voeten (2000) introduces this
method in his analysis of UNGA voting.
For this paper, we used the R package HOMALS (De Leeuw and
Mair, 2007, 2009) to perform MCA. In the context of HOMALS,
MCA is called a simple homogeneity analysis. See Giﬁ (1990)
and Michailidis and de Leeuw (1998) for detailed descriptions of
homogeneity analysis. Previous applications of MCA/homogeneity
analysis to legislative voting data include Desposato’s (1997) study
of party switching in Brazil and de Leeuw’s (2005) analysis of Senate
voting patterns.31
These methods permit the simultaneous spatial locations for, in
this case, states and resolutions. Fig. 8 shows the results for our ﬁrst
(late Cold War) period, using a two-dimensional space and plotting
the coordinates estimated using the Homals method.32 For visual
reasons we only display the locations of states. The main clusters
are highly similar to the blockmodeling results for this time period.
Although the resolutions are suppressed, Homals locates countries
near the resolutions for which they vote yes. Cluster 1 contains
members of the NATO alliance and their allies; cluster 4 (bottom
right hand side of graph) contains the Soviet bloc (Warsaw Pact
member-) states and their allies. A large group of leftist states is
located just above this group (cluster 3). The large group of largely
non-aligned member states (with China nearby) is in and around
cluster 2. The classic horseshoe pattern positions countries most
dissimilar from one another at opposite ends, with the Western
bloc opposite the Soviet bloc countries on both dimensions. The
non-aligned member states are between these two ideologically
opposed blocs. Interestingly, the three Western states P5 (UNSC
Permanent 5 members) are clustered more closely than the rest of
the Western states (China and the Soviet Union are the other two
P5 states) (Fig. 7).
The two-dimensional Homals plot for Time 2 (Fig. 8) reveals a
change in the voting structures beyond the addition of about 30
new UN member-states. The graph indicates that most of the difference in voting is along the ﬁrst dimension where an expanded
“West” (Cluster 1) containing many of the former Soviet Union
bloc states—and representing an expanded NATO and EU—is distinct from “the rest” of the states. As in the blockmodeling analysis,
the US and Israel are distinct from the other Western states on
the second dimension. The ﬁve remaining communist states—Cuba,
China, Laos, North Korea (omitted due to high absenteeism), and
Vietnam—are located within or just below cluster 3 and distinct
from the large group of developing states. Not surprisingly, the

31
We also used the R package WNOMINATE (Poole et al., 2011) to perform the
NOMINATE procedure and compare the results from using it with results with our
Homals output but do not provide the results here because of space constraints. The
results are available upon request.
32
The NOMINATE results produced similar clusters to that of Homals; the plots
look different because of how the ideal points are plotted but the correlation
between clusters are high.

195

Fig. 7. Homals voting map, Time 1: 1981–1985.

Fig. 8. Homals voting map, Time 2: 1996–2001.

distinct pattern of Western states (including differences within this
bloc), and the separation of states described as “counterhegemonic”
(remaining communist states and those with which the US and
other Western states have been in conﬂict)33 from the rest of the
non-Western states was consistent across analyses.
There is no exact way to fully compare the results for using
different methods. However, we can compare some of the results
from using other methods with our own in order to independently
evaluate the blocs produced by blockmodeling. We found that the
results across methods were highly similar providing some validation for the clusters we identiﬁed. One advantage of the geographic
methods was the production of coordinates for both resolutions and
states that can be used as variables in statistical models. However,
voting bloc memberships as identiﬁed by blockmodeling also can
be used as dummy variables in the same fashion as done in Snyder
and Kick (1979).

33

See Voeten (2000) for similar ﬁndings using NOMINATE.

196

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

6.2. Negative eigenvector centrality
An approach that can be used to both identify cliques of states
voting similarly, and to examine balancing behavior, is the negative eigenvector centrality approach created by Bonacich and Lloyd
(2004).34 This approach illustrates competing alliances through the
use of positive and negative ties. The clustering is highly similar
to that found in the blockmodel results. The two approaches can
be complementary in two ways. First, blockmodeling provides full
information results which can be used to explore the key issues
that deﬁne the divide among opposing groups of states. Second,
the eigenvector centrality approach can be used to explore subsets
of states. We provide an example using a subset of “European” (or
Western) states.35
Fig. 9 illustrates voting similarity at Time 1 among European and
other Western states and clearly reﬂects what would be expected
by balancing processes described in Theorems 1 and 2 above. Note
that all of the positive ties (solid lines) are among countries within
each cluster, and all of the negative ties are between the group of
Western (and NATO member) states on the right and Warsaw Pact
members and their allies on the left.
Fig. 10 illustrates voting similarity in Time 2, the period after the
Cold War has ended and states have re-aligned. The graph reveals
ﬁrst, a much denser graph as there are a number of newly independent states; and second, a largely cohesive Europe (and “West”).
It is not surprising that the incorporation of many former Soviet
bloc Eastern European states into NATO and EU would result in the
peripheral status of Russia, Belarus and former Soviet bloc Central
Asian states. Blockmodeling can be explored to locate the key issues
that keep these states distinct from the rest.
6.3. Islands
Similar to the Eigenvector Centrality approach, the islands
technique (Zaveršnik and Batagelj, 2004) begins with the transformation of the data from a two-mode to a one-mode network.
As noted in that section, we begin with a matrix G that denotes
the array of ties for a signed two-mode network G = (U, V, E). The
matrix GGT is a valued network whose vertices are the elements in
U and the values on the ties are integers (that can be positive or
negative). More formally, the network created by forming GGT is
M = (U, Em , w) where Em is the set of edges and w maps these edges
to the set of integers. A visual imagery for the concept of islands is
to think of a network where the lines differ in height according to
the values of the edges in Em . Imagine the whole network is covered
by water in a tank. As the level of water drops, the highest valued
edges appear ﬁrst (along with the vertices directly linked by them)
above the level of the water. If the level drops further, more valued
edges appear and they form one of more islands visible above the
threshold.
Let t be a threshold (the level of the water in the visual imagery).
Let e denote an element of Em (e ε Em ) and let w(e) denote the value
of an edge, e. A line cut of M = (U, Em ) is a subnetwork, M(t) = (U(t),
Em (t)) where the elements of Em (t) are such that e ε Em (t) if and
only if w(e) ≥ t and U(t) is the set of elements of U having some
edges, e, incident at them where w(e) ≥ t. The vertices U(t) that are

34
Lloyd (2007) also developed the application of this approach to international
relations data.
35
The UN has two regional classiﬁcations: one is deﬁned by the ECOSOC regional
commissions and includes all of Europe plus the US, Canada, and Israel; the other
is the regional caucusing group which separates Eastern and Western Europe and
places countries in the latter category (WEOG—Western European and Other Group)
along with the U.S., Canada, Israel, Australia, New Zealand, Denmark, Finland, and
Norway. We chose to use the ECOSOC European category that included both Eastern
and Western Europe.

linked by valued edges in Em (t) form islands. Given a threshold t,
there can be one or many islands that are determined solely by
being connected by the edges of Em (t). Note that this criterion for
island membership is stringent. The set of vertices is edge island if
the corresponding induced subgraph is connected and there exists a
spanning tree, such that the values of ties with exactly one endpoint
in island are less than or equal to the values of ties of the tree in the
island (see Zaveršnik and Batagelj, 2004 and De Nooy et al., 2011,
pp. 124–32). Island detection is implemented in Pajek (Batagelj and
Mrvar, 1998).
In terms of the UNGA voting arrays, the values of the ties in GGT
capture the net number of times that two states vote the same way
over the set of resolutions in the array. The higher the values in GGT ,
the more often the states vote in the same fashion overall. An analysis using islands seeks to locate those islands composed of states
that vote together the most often. In practice in Pajek, the threshold
t is left implicit by specifying the minimum and maximum sizes of
islands. Determining island sizes is done by inspecting the distribution of their sizes under different pairs of minimum and maximum
sizes. The algorithm is extremely fast and islands analyses done
on the UNGA voting matrices are completed within seconds rather
than hours for many of the blockmodeling analyses.
Because of space constraints, we summarize our results here.
The analysis in terms of islands produced partitions that differ in
two ways from those obtained by using blockmodeling. First, the
islands procedure allows for vertices to be unclassiﬁed. For Time
1, there were 5 identiﬁed islands and one residual cluster of states
that were not classiﬁed. And for resolutions there were four islands
of classiﬁed resolutions and one residual cluster. The implied value
of the criterion function for this partition is 3130, a value well above
all values of the criterion function reported in Table 1. The values
of ARI when the islands partition is compared with the (5, 5), (6,
6) and (7, 7) partitions are 0.148, 0.262, and 0.235 respectively.
The partition provided by the island detection method differs from
all of the blockmodeling partitions. While it does cluster all of the
Western and/or Industrial states together, it is less nuanced in the
clustering of the remaining states.
An analysis using Islands for Time 2 led to a partition with 8
clusters of states and a partition with 7 clusters of resolutions.36
The implied value of the criterion function was 1016.5, a value well
above the values reported in Table 5. When this partition was compared with the (7, 7) and (8, 8) partitions, the values of the ARI
measure were 0.455 and 0.416, respectively. The clusters detected
by the islands method were very different to those obtained from
blockmodeling and inferior in terms of the criterion function used
to evaluate joint partitions.
6.4. Community detection
At face value, there is a potential connection to be made
with the community detection literature developed primarily by
researchers coming from physics. See, for example, Fortunado
(2009), Girvan and Newman (2002) and Newman (2006). The
essential idea of community detection for one-mode networks is
to locate one or more subsets of vertices such that the ties between
vertices inside the subsets are larger (if valued) and/or more dense
than the ties from these vertices to the rest of the network. The
potential connection is that within voting blocs there will be dense
ties of a particular type. We explore the popular Girvan–Newman
(2002) algorithm37 implemented in UCInet (Borgatti et al., 2002).

36
As noted, we do not report the full results because of space constraints but they
are available upon request from the authors.
37
We thank Steve Borgatti for implementing this algorithm into Ucinet (Borgatti
et al., 2002).

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

197

Fig. 9. Eigenvector centrality voting map for “Europe”, Time 1 (1981–1985).

This also required conversion of our two-mode data into two onemode networks.
When the Girvan–Newman CD algorithm is used for the onemode network GGT constructed from the two-mode network G,
there is one large cluster with a few (Western) states not in the large
cluster. The reason for this is straightforward: the counts of states
voting together on resolutions ranges from 276 (for states that supported all resolutions) to −222 (for 4 pairs of states whose net joint
voting together was against military resolutions considered in the
UNGA). The majority of values in this one-mode matrix are large
and there is no real surprise with the detection of a single ‘community’. For Time 2, this algorithm detected one large community
containing all states except a few non-Western states.
We note two things. First, the Girvan–Newman algorithm is formulated for binary networks and it is straightforward to convert the
valued network into a binary one. Some threshold is selected and
values above this threshold are coded “1” while values below it are
coded “0.” The problem lies in selecting the threshold and different thresholds lead to detecting different communities. This is an
option that could be explored. Second, and perhaps more importantly, this algorithm was designed for sparse networks and the
UNGA voting arrays are far from sparse. Indeed, they are close
to being complete. Indeed, the near complete nature of the data
used here are not appropriate for using this algorithm. A better
option might be in Newman (2006). Many community detection
methods are covered by Fortunado (2009) and some could be useful here. Also, Tragg and Bruggeman (2009) propose an approach
for signed networks. These are among many potential algorithms
that could prove useful. Certainly, the literature on community

detection could be very useful. We return to this in our ﬁnal
section.
7. Summary
We have presented results stemming from the partitioning of
signed two-mode data in the form of states voting on military resolutions that came before the UNGA for two time periods (1981–85
and 1996–2001). One period was well before the dissolution of the
Soviet Union and the other period was deﬁned for a time period
that was as far after this dissolution as the ﬁrst period was before
it. Unsurprisingly, the voting structure of states differed considerably for the two time periods. But a focus on voting analysis
was not our primary intent. Rather, our purpose was to consider
seriously some of the methodological problems of a blockmodeling approach to partitioning large signed two-mode data. While
the UNGA voting data for military resolutions could be seen as no
more than providing a ‘convenient’ data set for doing this, these
data are far more than a demonstration database. In addition to
being important in their own right, these data exemplify the inherent problems stemming from moving from small data sets to data
that stretch the bounds of what can be done with blockmodeling.
Hence, the preliminary effort to evaluate our results using alternative approaches. A second motivation was to evaluate what can
be gained in the trade-off of using an approach with high computational times for larger datasets. Our desire was to ‘bring back in’
the less studied triple of two actors and a social object that blockmodeling allows in order to explore balancing of power processes
using IR data.

198

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Fig. 10. Eigenvector centrality voting map for “Europe”, Time 2 (1996–2001).

We also considered some other approaches to these data,
and presented comparisons of the different partitions that are
identiﬁed using these alternative methods. Direct comparisons,
however, were difﬁcult because of one fundamental difference in
the methodological approaches used in the analysis of signed twomode data. Blockmodeling is a full information approach that deals
directly with all of the data and does not use any summarization
of them for obtaining partitions or any general conclusions about
these data. The cost of doing this comes in the form of increased
computational times for completing the analyses of data. Even so,
for the UNGA voting data for military resolutions, the more extensive analyses can be done. Of course, this ﬂies in the face of a drive
to analyze very large data sets in a very fast fashion and one of the
large questions is whether or not the extra time is worth it.
In terms of characterizing the big picture, the blockmodeling
approach considered here appears to provide the same general
characterization of the structure of UNGA voting as some of the
other approaches. The potential contribution of blockmodeling is to
go beyond this type of characterization to probe for further details
within these broad characterizations. While we think that the more
detailed partitions that we have provided as examples do lay the
foundations for doing this, a decision about the value of examining
these ﬁne-grained details is up to individual researchers.
We think that the joint partition of states and resolutions has
intrinsic value because when considering the blocs of states with
regard to voting, a deeper understanding comes from knowing
where the exact differences are located. Blockmodeling provides
a coherent way of doing this. For example, it is one thing to note

that the states belonging to different broad alliances face competing pressures to vote according to the multiple memberships that
they have. It is another thing to identify responses to these kinds of
pressures. We think that the reﬁned partition in the bottom panel
of Fig. 4 takes a useful step in this direction. This sets up a more
demanding task to see exactly what it is in the content of the resolutions that leads states to vote the way they do, especially when
subject to conﬂicting pressures, in the UNGA. But as illustrated in
Fig. 5, it provides the means to explore soft balancing processes, e.g.,
efforts by states to exert their policy preferences. The drilling down
feature of blockmodeling allows for the identiﬁcation of the complete set of resolutions that distinguish the voting among states and
to identify the issues that distinguish typical voting blocs and that
may contribute to balancing processes among competing states or
alliances. For example, the complete information analysis provides
the information needed to determine whether voting differences
are due to a particular conﬂict (differences in how to resolve the
ongoing Middle East conﬂict for example); or reﬂect more general
challenges to a state or an alliances’ military power by constraining
its use, e.g., through promotion of norms that prohibit the possession or use of particular weaponry.
8. Discussion
During the analyses that led to the results shown here, a number of difﬁcult issues emerged. Key to ﬁtting blockmodels is the
distinction between inductive and deductive blockmodeling. The
former forms a strategy that can be construed as based on ignorance

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

because all that is expressed is that certain blocks could be present.
Of course, there is a role for inductive blockmodeling, especially
when it is applied in new empirical contexts. Yet, we often know
more about empirical phenomena than the relevance of particular block types. This knowledge can be expressed in a pre-speciﬁed
blockmodel. Our experience with the generic blockmodel described
in Section 4 is a sobering reminder that a prespeciﬁed model, while
immensely plausible, can never be the end of a structural story.
The use of what we thought would be an inferior indirect approach
using Euclidean distance, while much inferior most of the time, did
surprise us once in Time 1. It suggested an alternative, and better,
pre-speciﬁed blockmodel that we were compelled to use. This suggests that if there are multiple approaches to obtaining a partition
of two-mode signed (or any) structural data, there is a beneﬁt to
moving between the different methods rather than sticking to one
preferred approach.38
One little explored feature of the blockmodeling of signed data,
regardless of whether they are one-mode or two-mode, is found
in the criterion function, ˛N + (1 − ˛)P that we have used. Nearly
all empirical applications have featured partitioning with ˛ = 0.5
because it is safe and there is no obvious reason for weighting N
and P differently. Yet, when there is a large imbalance between the
number of positive and negative ties in a signed data set, it seems
reasonable to explore different values for ˛. Indeed, some of the
reﬁned partitions that we reported for partitioning within previously established blocks were done with varying ˛. There are at
least two compelling reasons for doing this. One is pragmatic in
that values of ˛ that depart from 0.5 are much more likely to produce unique partitions. More importantly, when seeking ‘minority’
patterns within large blocks, it is important to make sure that the
sub-blocks are really homogeneous. So, when the minority different blocks are expected to be N blocks then positive inconsistencies
were weighted more heavily and, when the minority blocks were
expected to be P blocks, the negative inconsistencies were weighted
more heavily. The detailed impact of differing values of ␣ is an issue
that merits exploration.
As data sets considered by network analysts expand in size,
and blockmodeling two-mode data structures is seen as having
value, there is a need for faster algorithms. In terms of speed, the
approaches considered here range from the blazingly fast Islands
algorithm to the heavy computational demands of direct blockmodeling. Choosing a preferred method(s) will be the decision of
individual researchers according to their overall objectives. Blockmodeling locates the same general clustering and also provides
the means for drilling down into ﬁne-grained details with greater
ease or clarity than some other approaches. On the other hand,
blockmodeling may lead to extremely ﬁne-grained partitions with
the potential to overwhelm the researcher with this detail. Still,
this detail may be of value for those interested in the position of
particular states or groups of states on particular policies.
We emphasize that our comparisons with other methods are
far from complete. Space constraints prevented us from fully comparing alternative approaches. The fact that these methods did not
work as well in the data considered here, in terms of poor ARI scores
or not providing partitions has no implications for their general utility. In the RSB approach to partitioning 2-mode networks, the primary evaluative emphasis is on the value of the criterion functions
for established partitions, something that is absent from the other
approaches that we have considered. We acknowledge that given
the presence of many other algorithms, such as used in the community detection approach, there may be more efﬁcient methods

38
It raises also the daunting problem of specifying the form of two-mode data
structures where an indirect approach, such as the one using Euclidean distance,
performs very well rather than very poorly.

199

to identify clusters in large datasets. But our motivation for writing
this paper was twofold: to explore solutions for problems that occur
when applying the relaxed structural balance approach to large
signed two-mode data, and to contribute to recent applications of
social network analysis to IR research by highlighting its potential
to uncover soft balancing of power processes. Soft balancing implies
alliances with consistency with regard to joint voting behavior and,
to capture this, the signed blockmodeling of two-mode data has
been operationalized in a speciﬁc and substantive driven way.

Appendix A. Countries included in the analyses
T1 countries, N = 141
DKCambodia
Afghanistan
DemYemen
Algeria
Denmark
Angola
Djibouti
Argentina
Australia
DominicanRep
Ecuador
Austria
Bahamas
Egypt
ElSalvador
Bahrain
Ethiopia
Bangladesh
Fiji
Barbados
Finland
Byelorussia
Belgium
France
Gabon
Benin
GerDemRep
Bhutan
GerFedRep
Bolivia
Ghana
Botswana
Brazil
Greece
Guatemala
Bulgaria
Guinea
UVBurkinoFaso
GuineaBissau
BurmaMyanmar
Burundi
Guyana
Haiti
Cameroon
Honduras
Canada
CapeVerde
Hungary
Iceland
CenAfrRep
Chad
India
Indonesia
Chile
Iran
China
Iraq
Colombia
Ireland
Congo
CostaRica
Israel
Italy
CotedIvoire
Cuba
Jamaica
Japan
Cyprus
Jordan
Czechoslovakia

Kenya
Kuwait
Laos
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Nepal
Netherlands
NewZealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
PapuaNewGuinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland

Portugal
Qatar
Romania
USSR
Rwanda
StLucia
SaoTomePrincipe
SaudiArabia
Senegal
SierraLeone
Singapore
Somalia
Spain
SriLanka
Sudan
Suriname
Sweden
SyrianArabRep
Thailand
Togo
TrinidadTobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Uganda
Ukraine
UAE
UK
URTanzania
US
Uruguay
Venezuela
Vietnam
Yemen
Yugoslavia
ZaireDRC
Zambia

T2 Countries, N = 153
Djibouti
Albania
DominicanRep
Algeria
Ecuador
Andorra
Egypt
Angola
ElSalvador
AntiguaBarbuda
EquatorialGuinea
Argentina
Eritrea
Armenia
Estonia
Australia
Ethiopia
Austria
Fiji
Azerbaijan
Finland
Bahamas
France
Bahrain
Gabon
Bangladesh
Georgia
Barbados
GerFedRep
Belarus
Belgium
Ghana
Greece
Belize
Grenada
Benin
Guatemala
Bhutan
Guinea
Bolivia
Botswana
Guyana
Haiti
Brazil
Honduras
BruneiDar
Hungary
Bulgaria
UVBurkinoFaso
Iceland

Lebanon
LibyanAJ
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Mauritius
Mexico
Monaco
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
NewZealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan

StLucia
Samoa
SanMarino
SaudiArabia
Senegal
SierraLeone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
SolomonIslands
SouthAfrica
Spain
SriLanka
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
SyrianArabRep
Tajikistan
Thailand
TFYRM
Togo
TrinidadTobago
Tunisia
Turkey

200

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Appendix A (Continued )
BurmaMyanmar
Cameroon
Canada
CapeVerde
Chile
China
Colombia
CostaRica
CotedIvoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
CzechRep
Denmark

India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Laos
Latvia

Panama
PapuaNewGuinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
RepKorea
RepMoldova
Romania
RussianFed
Monaco
Mongolia

Uganda
Ukraine
UAE
UK
URTanzania
US
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela
Vietnam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Appendix B. UNGA military resolutions for each time period

resolutions concerning ratiﬁcation of Additional Protocol I
of the Treaty for the Prohibition of nuclear weapons in Latin
America; 1 on declaration to prevent nuclear catastrophe; 1 on
comprehensive review of all peacekeeping operations.
(4) Resolutions from the 10th and 12th special session on disarmament: 55 and 23 resolutions, respectively; these address
multiple issues from general disarmament to chemical, biological and small arm weapons, and the need for conventions.
(5) Special reports on disarmament and security: 5 (one a year) on
enhancing the effectiveness of the principle of non-use of force
in international relations.
(6) UN conferences: 1 on promotion of international cooperation
in peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
(7) Normative and rights issues: 2 relating disarmament and
development; 2 on right of people to peace.

Time 1: 1981–1985, N = 276 resolutions
(1) National and regional concerns: a number of resolutions
addressed apartheid. South Africa was under apartheid from
1948 to early 1994 and it was sanctioned from voting in the UN
from September 1974 until June 1994. The issue of apartheid
was raised in the ﬁrst UNGA session in 1946 but it was seen as
an internal issue until the 1960 Sharpeville massacre brought
greater international attention to the issue. It was not until
1974, that the UNGA voted to expel South Africa from the UN.
The UNSC 418 in 1977 created a mandatory arms embargo.
The following resolutions focused on national and regional concerns: South Africa apartheid regime against Angola and other
independent African states (36/172C, 1981); arms embargo
against South Africa (36/172E; 40/6, 1985); condemnation of
military and nuclear collaboration with South Africa (37/69D);
armed conﬂict between Iran and Iraq (37/3); Israeli aggression against Iraqi nuclear installations (36/27, 1981; 38/9,
1983; 39/14, 1984); Israeli nuclear armament (36/98, 1981;
37/82, 1982; 38/69, 1983; 39/147, 1984; 40/93, 1985); using
Antarctica for peaceful purposes (3 in 1985); Falkland islands
(37/9, 1982; 38/12, 1983; 39/6, 1984; 40/21, 1985); 13 addressing Palestine; 13 addressing the Middle East situation; 3 on
Afghanistan (very divisive (38/29, 1983; 39/13, 1984; 40/12,
1985); 2 to establish nuclear-weapon-free-zone in the Middle
East; 4 to establish a nuclear-weapon-free-zone in South Asia.
(2) Resolutions related to conventions: chemical and biological
weapons (the following resolutions revealed a strong division
in voting: 36/96 A, B, C; 37/98 A, C, D, E; 38/187 A, C; 36/65 A, B,
E; 40/92 A, C). The Convention on Biological Weapons opened
for signature April 1972; entered into force March 1975; 171
signatories and 155 ratiﬁcations; Israel is one of the states that
have not ratiﬁed or signed; 4 resolutions address the “urgent
need” for a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty, 1982–1985
(a Convention was opened for signature in 1996 but is not yet
in force; the US signed it but did has not ratiﬁed it as of yet;
see http://www.ctbto.org/faqs/?uid=3&cHash=11241d850); 10
resolutions call for the creation of an international convention
to assure non-nuclear weapon states against the use or threat
of use of nuclear weapons; 1 resolutions calls for a treaty to
prohibit stationing weapons of any kind in outer space.
(3) Resolutions addressing particular security issues and policies:
36 resolutions focus on general and complete disarmament
with multiple related issues; 4 on removing landmines as
remnants of war; 4 on reducing military budgets; 2 reviewing
multilateral treaty-making process; 6 prohibiting the development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass
destruction; 4 on preventing an arms race in outer space; 1
on nuclear weapon freeze; 3 calling for an immediate end
to testing nuclear weapons; 4 calling for implementation of

Time 2: 1996–2001, N = 150 resolutions

(1) National and regional concerns: 2 resolutions focus on ﬁnancing of a UN interim force in Lebanon; 1 on the ME peace
process; 6 on the risk of nuclear proliferation in the ME; 1
on establishing nuclear-weapon-free-zone in the ME region;
1 on maintenance of international security in the development of South-Eastern Europe; 1 on Bosnia and Herzegovina;
6 to establish a nuclear-weapon-free-zone in South Atlantic;
1 to establish a nuclear-weapon-free-zone in South Asia; 4 on
implementing declaration of Indian Ocean as a zone of peace.
(2) Resolutions related to conventions: these are all addressed under
the general and complete disarmament resolutions detailed in
#4 below. The Convention on Chemical Weapons opened for
signature January 1993; entered into force April 1997; as of May
2009, 188 signatures and 186 ratiﬁcations; Israel and Myanmar
have not signed; Angola, N Korea, Egypt, Somalia, Syria have not
signed or ratiﬁed it.
(3) Resolutions addressing particular security issues and policies: 82
resolutions focused on general and complete disarmament
with multiple issues. Notably, this is a 4-fold increase; several
resolutions addressed the ICJ advisory opinion on the Legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons and reveal very
divisive voting; other issues covered a wide range of disarmament issues including the Nuclear non-Proliferation Treaty;
conventional arms control at the regional level; transparency
in armaments; environmental norms in disarmaments; small
arms; nuclear testing; 1 on arms race prevention in outer
space; 1 on comprehensive review of peacekeeping operations;
1 on maintenance of international security; 7 on scientiﬁc and
technological developments and their impact on international
security; 5 on preventing an arms race in outer space; prevent violent disintegration of states; 1 on measures to eliminate
international terrorism.
(4) Resolutions from the 10th and 12th special session on disarmament: 2 and 6 resolutions respectively (continual reduction);
5 from the 12th session is on a nuclear weapons convention;
other issues discuss disarmament generally.
(5) Special reports on disarmament and security: 4 on the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA); 1 on the report of the
Security Council.
(6) Cooperation with other agencies: 6 on cooperation between the
UN and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE); 1 on cooperation between the UN and the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty
organization.

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

201

Fig. C1. A partition of the full set of states and military resolutions for Time 1.

Appendix C. Ancillary ﬁgures and tables
Fig. C1 and Table C1.
Table C1
Seven clusters of resolutions from Fig. C1.
R1

R2

R3

36/104
36/172C
36/172F
36/25
36/92C
36/92F
36/95
36/96A
37/3
37/71
37/81
37/83
37/99F
37/99I
37/99J
38/180C
38/181A
38/188A
38/188I
38/58D
38/61
38/68
38/70
38/74
38/9
39/146C
39/148H
39/151A

36/112
36/97A
36/97C
36/97G
36/97J
37/100E
37/73
37/78K
37/84
37/98C
37/99D
37/99E
37/99G
38/183P
38/184
38/188C
38/188E
38/63
38/71A
38/81
39/53
39/64B
39/90
40/81
40/91B

36/102
36/106
36/84
36/86A
36/86B
36/92E
36/92H
36/97K
36/99
37/100A
37/100B
37/102
37/118
37/72
37/74A
37/74B
37/77B
37/78C
37/78F
37/78G
37/78I
37/78J
37/85
38/132
38/181B
38/183B
38/183D
38/183G

R4
38/73E
38/73H
38/76
38/80
39/148A
39/148C
39/148F
39/148G
39/148J
39/148K
39/148L
39/148N
39/148O
39/148P
39/155
39/49C
39/49D
39/52
39/60
39/61B
39/63C
39/63D
39/63G
39/80
40/151B
40/151C
40/151E
40/152A

36/172E
36/188
36/226B
36/31
36/87B
36/89
36/92D
36/92I
36/94
36/96B
37/100C
37/100H
37/105
37/215
37/69D
37/77A
37/78B
37/80
37/9
38/12
38/133
38/162
38/180B
38/182
38/183F
38/188J
38/58A
38/58B

40/11
40/151A
40/151D
40/151F
40/152I
40/158
40/197
40/70
40/80B
40/96A

R5

R6

R7

36/88
36/96C
37/76
37/95B
37/98D
37/98E
38/187C
38/29
38/65
39/13
39/148B
39/55
39/65A
39/65E
40/12
40/152B
40/83
40/92C
40/94N

37/167
37/78A
38/183A
38/188G
38/191
39/158
40/156A
40/156B
40/156C
40/159

36/100
36/226A
36/27
36/92J
36/92K
36/97E
36/98
37/78E
37/82
37/98A
37/99A
38/180A
38/180D
38/180E
38/183C
38/187A
38/188F
38/69
38/75
39/
39/6A
39/6B
39/7
39/8D
39/8E
39/151D
39/151I
39/57

202

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203

Table C1 (Continued)
R1
39/151B
39/151F
39/151H
39/51
39/58
39/59
39/61A
40/150
40/151H
40/152J
40/168C
40/79
40/86
40/87
40/89A
40/94A
40/94F
40/94G
40/94M

R2

R3
38/183H
38/183I
38/183J
38/183L
38/183M
38/183N
38/188H
38/190
38/58C
38/58E
38/62
38/72
38/73B

R4
40/152E
40/152G
40/152M
40/152N
40/152P
40/21
40/80A
40/88
40/89B
40/90
40/94H
40/96C

References
Art, R.J., 2005/2006. Correspondence: striking the balance. International Security 30
(Winter (3)), 177–196.
Batagelj, V., Mrvar, A., 1998. Pajek—program for large network analysis. Connections
21, 47–57.
Bonacich, P., Lloyd, P., 2004. Calculating status with negative relations. Social Networks 26 (4), 331–339.
Borg, I., Groenen, P.J.F., 2005. Modern Multidimensional Scaling: Theory and Applications, second ed. Springer, New York.
Borgatti, S.P., Everett, M.J., 1992. Regular blockmodels of multiway, multimode
matrices. Social Networks 14, 91–120.
Borgatti, S.P., Everett, M.G., 1997. Network analysis of 2-mode data. Social Networks
19, 243–269.
Borgatti, S.P., Everett, M.G., Freeman, L., 2002. UCInet for Windows: Software for
Social Network Analysis. Analytic Technologies, Harvard, MA.
Brooks, S.G., Wohlforth, W.C., 2005/2006. Correspondence: Striking the Balance.
International Security 30 (Winter (3)), 177–196.
Brusco, M., Doreian, P., Mrvar, A., Steinley, D., 2011. Two algorithms for relaxed
structural balance partitioning: linking theory, models, and data to understand
social network phenomena. Sociological Methods and Research 40, 57–87.
Cahoon, L.J. 1975. Locating a set of points using range information only. Unpublished
PhD Dissertation in Statistics. Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh.
Cartwright, D., Harary, F., 1956. Structural balance: a generalization of Heider’s theory. Psychological Review 63, 277–293.
Davis, J.A., 1967. Clustering and structural balance in graphs. Human Relations 20,
181–187.
De Leeuw, J., 2005. Principal component analysis of Senate voting patterns. In: Sawilowski, S. (Ed.), Real Data Analysis. Information Age Publishing, North Carolina,
pp. 405–411.
De Leeuw, J., Mair, P., 2007. Homogeneity analysis. In: R: The Package Homals.
Preprint 525, Department of Statistics, UCLA.
De Leeuw, J., Mair, P., 2009. Giﬁ methods for optimal scaling in r: the package homals.
Journal of Statistical Software 31 (4), 1–20, http://www.jstatsoft.org/v31/i04/.
De Nooy, Wouter, Andrej, Mrvar, Vladimir, Batagelj, 2011. Exploratory Social Network Analysis with Pajek: Revised and Expanded, 2nd ed. Cambridge University
Press, New York.
Doreian, P., Batagelj, V., Ferligoj, A., 1994. Partitioning networks based on generalized
concepts of equivalence. Journal of Mathematical Sociology 19, 1–27.
Doreian, P., Batagelj, V., Ferligoj, A., 2004. Generalized blockmodeling of two-mode
network data. Social Networks 26, 29–53.
Doreian, P., Batagelj, V., Ferligoj, A., 2005. Generalized Blockmodeling. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, England.
Doreian, P., Krackhardt, D., 2001. Pre-transitive balance mechanisms for signed networks. Journal of Mathematical Sociology 25, 43–67.
Doreian, P., Mrvar, A., 1996. A partitioning approach to structural balance. Social
Networks 18, 149–168.
Doreian, P., Mrvar, A., 2009. Partitioning signed social networks. Social Networks 31,
1–11.
Desposato, S.W., 1997. Party Switching and Democratization in Brazil. In:
Presented at the 1997 Meeting of the Latin American Studies Association in Guadalajara, Mexico, April 17–20, 1997. Available from:
http://lasa.international.pitt.edu/LASA97/desposato.pdf.
Downs, A., 1957. An Economic Theory of Democracy. Harper, New York.
Feld, S., Elmore, R., 1982. Patterns of sociometric choices: patterns of transitivity
reconsidered. Social Psychology Quarterly 45 (2), 77–85.
Fortunado, S., 2009. Community detection in graphs. Physics Reports 486, 75–174.

38/67
38/73F
38/73G
39/11
39/148M
39/151E
39/157
39/167
39/49A
39/49B
39/6
39/62
39/63A
39/63H
39/63K
39/81

R5

R6

R7
39/65B
40/152H
40/168A
40/168B
40/18
40/6
40/85
40/92A
40/93
40/94I
40/96D

Giﬁ, A., 1990. Nonlinear Multivariate Analysis. John Wiley & Sons, New York.
Girvan, M., Newman, M.E.J., 2002. Community structure in social and biological networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 99,
7821–7826.
Gower, J.C., Hand, D.J., 1995. Biplots. Chapman & Hall/CRC, Boca Raton, FL.
Gower, J.C., Lubbe, S.G., le Roux, N., 2011. Understanding Biplots. John Wiley & Sons,
New York.
Harary, F., Norman, R.Z., Cartwright, D., 1965. Structural Models: An Introduction to
the Theory of Directed Graphs. John Wiley, New York.
Heider, F., 1946. Attitudes and cognitive organization. Journal of Psychology 21,
107–112.
Heider, F., 1958. The Psychology of Interpersonal Relations. John Wiley and Sons,
New York.
Hotelling, H., 1929. Stability and competition. Economic Journal 39 (1), 41–57.
Hubert, L., Arabie, P., 1985. Comparing partitions. Journal of Classiﬁcation 2,
193–218.
Hummon, N.P., Doreian, P., 2003. Some dynamics of social balance processes: bringing Heider back into balance theory. Social Networks 25, 17–49.
Huntington, Samuel P., 1996. The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World
Order. Simon and Schuster, New York.
Kim, S.Y., Russett, B., 1996. The new politics of voting alignments in the
United Nations General Assembly. International Organization 50 (4), 629–
652.
Latapy, M., Magnien, C., Vecchio, N.D., 2008. Basic notions for the analysis of large
two-mode networks. Social Networks 30, 31–48.
Lloyd, Paulette, 2007. Mapping the World Order. Unpublished manuscript.
Michailidis, G., de Leeuw, J., 1998. The Giﬁ system of descriptive multivariate analysis. Statistical Science 13, 307–336.
Mrvar, A., Doreian, P., 2009. Partitioning signed two-mode networks. Journal of
Mathematical Sociology 33, 196–221.
Newcomb, T.N., 1961. The Acquaintance Process. Holt Rinehart and Winston, New
York.
Newman, M.E.J., 2006. Finding community structure in networks using the eigenvectors of matrices. Physical Review E 74, 036104.
Nordlie, P.H., 1958. A Longitudinal Study of Interpersonal Attraction in a Natural
Setting, Unpublished Ph.D. thesis, University of Michigan.
Paul, T.V., 2004. The enduring axioms of balance of power theory. In: Paul, T.V.,
Wirtz, J.J., Fortman, M. (Eds.), Balance of Power: Theory and Practice in the 21st
Century. Stanford University Press, Stanford, pp. 1–25.
Poole, K.T., 2005. Spatial Models of Parliamentary Voting. Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, UK.
Poole, K.T., Lewis, j., Lo, J., Carroll, R., 2011. Scaling roll call votes with nominate.
Journal of Statistical Software 42 (14), 1–21, http://www.jstatsoft.org/v42/i14/.
Robins, G., Kashima, Y., 2008. Social psychology and social networks: individuals
and social systems. Asian Journal of Social Psychology 11, 1–12.
Santos, J.M., Embrechts, M.,2009. On the use of the Adjusted Rand Index as a metric
for evaluating supervised classiﬁcation. In: ICANN ‘09: Proceedings of the 19th
International Conference on Artiﬁcial Neural Networks. Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
Heidelberg, pp. 175–184.
Saporta, G., Youness, G., 2002. Comparing two partitions: some proposals and experiments. In: Hardle, W., Ronz, B. (Eds.), Proceedings in Computational Statistics.
Physica Verlag, Berlin, pp. 243–248.
Snyder, D., Kick, E.L., 1979. Structural position in the world system and economic
growth, 1955–1970: a multiple-network analysis of transnational interactions.
American Journal of Sociology 84 (5), 1096–1126.
Steinley, D., 2004. Properties of the Hubert–Arabie Adjusted Rand Index. Psychological Methods 9 (3), 386–396.

P. Doreian et al. / Social Networks 35 (2013) 178–203
Tragg, V.A., Bruggeman, J., 2009. Community detection in networks with positive
and negative links. Physical Review E (Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter
Physics) 80 (3), 036115.
Voeten, E., 2000. Clashes in the assembly. International Organization 54 (2),
185–217.
Warrens, M., 2008. On the equivalence of Cohen’s Kappa and the Hubert–Arabie
Adjusted Rand Index. Journal of Classiﬁcation 25, 177–183.

203

Ward, J.H., 1963. Hierarchical grouping to optimize an objective function. Journal of
the American Statistical Association 58, 236–244.
Zaveršnik, M., Batagelj, V., 2004. Islands, XXIV International Sunbelt Social Network Conference, Portorož, Slovenia, May 12–16, 2004. Available from:
http://vlado.fmf.uni-lj.si/pub/networks/Doc/Sunbelt/islands.pdf.

