le nom est : ACL2004-HEADLINE.pdf

le titre est : Hybrid Headlines: Combining Topics and Sentence Compression 

les auteur sont :      David Zajic, Bonnie Dorr, Stacy President         Richard Schwartz 

Abstract This paper presents Topiary, a headlinegeneration system that creates very short, informative summaries for news stories by combining sentence compression and unsupervised topic discovery. We will show that the combination of linguistically motivated sentence compression with statistically selected topic terms performs better than either alone, according to some automatic summary evaluation measures. In addition we describe experimental results establishing an appropriate extrinsic task on which to measure the effect of summarization on human performance. We demonstrate the usefulness of headlines in comparison to full texts in the context of this extrinsic task.  

l introduction est : 1 Introduction In this paper we present Topiary, a headline- generation system that creates very short, infor- mative summaries for news stories by combining sentence compression and unsupervised topic dis- covery. Hedge Trimmer performs sentence com- pression by removing constituents from a parse tree of the lead sentence according to a set of linguistically-motivated heuristics until a length threshold is reached. Unsupervised Topic Discov- ery is a statistical method for deriving a set of topic models from a document corpus, assigning mean- ingful names to the topic models, and associating sets of topics with specific documents. The top- ics and sentence compressions are combined in a manner that preserves the advantages of each ap- proach: the fluency and event-oriented informa- tion from the lead sentence with the broader cov- erage of the topic models. The next section presents previous work in the area of automatic summarization. Following this we describe Hedge Trimmer and Unsupervised Topic Discovery in more detail, and describe the algorithm for combining sentence compression with topics. Next we show that Topiary scores higher than either Hedge Trimmer or Unsuper- vised Topic Discovery alone according to certain automatic evaluation tools for summarization. Fi- nally we propose event tracking as an extrinsic task using automatic summarization for measur- ing how human performance is affected by auto- matic summarization, and for correlating human peformance with automatic evaluation tools. We describe an experiment that supports event track- ing as an appropriate task for this purpose, and show results that suggest that a well-written hu- man headline is nearly as useful for event tracking as the full text. 

la conclusion est : 

ReferencesSabine Bergler, René Witte, Michelle Khalife,Zhuoyan Li, and Frank Rudzicz. 2003. Usingknowledge-poor coreference resolution for text summarization. In Proceedings of the 2003 DocumentUnderstanding Conference, Draft Papers, pages 85–92, Edmonton, Candada.Bonnie Dorr, David Zajic, and Richard Schwartz.2003a. Cross-language headline generation forhindi. ACM Transactions on Asian Language Information Processing (TALIP), 2:2.Bonnie Dorr, David Zajic, and Richard Schwartz.2003b. Hedge trimmer: A parse-and-trim approachto headline generation. In Proceedings of the HLTNAACL 2003 Text Summarization Workshop, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, pages 1–8.T. Euler. 2002. Tailoring text using topic words: Selection and compression. In Proceedings of 13thInternational Workshop on Database and ExpertSystems Applications (DEXA 2002), 2-6 September 2002, Aix-en-Provence, France, pages 215–222.IEEE Computer Society.Kevin Knight and Daniel Marcu. 2000. Statisticsbased summarization – step one: Sentence compression. In The 17th National Conference ofthe American Association for Artificial IntelligenceAAAI2000, Austin, Texas.David Lewis. 1992. An evaluation of phrasal and clustered representations on a text categorization task.In Proceedings of the 15th annual internationalACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval, pages 37–50, Copenhagen, Denmark.Chin-Yew Lin and Eduard Hovy. 2003. Automatic Evaluation of Summaries Using N-gram CoOccurrences Statistics. In Proceedings of the Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Edmonton,Alberta.Ingrid Mårdh. 1980. Headlinese: On the Grammar ofEnglish Front Page Headlines. Malmo.S. Miller, M. Crystal, H. Fox, L. Ramshaw,R. Schwartz, R. Stone, and R. Weischedel. 1998.Algorithms that Learn to Extract Information; BBN:Description of the SIFT System as Used for MUC-7.In Proceedings of the MUC-7.K. Papineni, S. Roukos, T. Ward, and W. Zhu. 2002.Bleu: a Method for Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translation. In Proceedings of Association ofComputational Linguistics, Philadelphia, PA.R. Schwartz, T. Imai, F. Jubala, L. Nguyen, andJ. Makhoul. 1997. A maximum likelihood modelfor topic classification of broadcast news.InEurospeech-97, Rhodes, Greece.David Zajic, Bonnie Dorr, Richard Schwartz, and StacyPresident. 2004. Headline evaluation experimentresults, umiacs-tr-2004-18. Technical report, University of Maryland Institute for Advanced Computing Studies, College Park, Maryland.Liang Zhou and Eduard Hovy. 2003. Headline summarization at isi. In Proceedings of the 2003 Document Understanding Conference, Draft Papers,pages 174–178, Edmonton, Candada.

