le nom est : hybrid_approach.pdf

le titre est : Sentence Compression for Automated Subtitling: A Hybrid Approach Vincent Vandeghinste and Yi Pan 

les auteur sont :                                Vincent Vandeghinste and Yi Pan 

Abstract In this paper a sentence compression tool is described. We describe how an input sentence gets analysed by using a.o. a tagger, a shallow parser and a subordinate clause detector, and how, based on this analysis, several compressed versions of this sentence are generated, each with an associated estimated probability. These probabilities were estimated from a parallel transcript/subtitle corpus. To avoid ungrammatical sentences, the tool also makes use of a number of rules. The evaluation was done on three different pronunciation speeds, averaging sentence reduction rates of 40% to 17%. The number of reasonable reductions ranges between 32.9% and 51%, depending on the average estimated pronunciation speed.  

l introduction est : 1 Introduction A sentence compression tool has been built with the purpose of automating subtitle generation for the deaf and hard-of-hearing. Verbatim transcrip- tions cannot be presented as the subtitle presentation time is between 690 and 780 characters per minute, which is more or less 5.5 seconds for two lines (ITC, 1997), (Dewulf and Saerens, 2000), while the aver- age speech rate contains a lot more than the equiva- lent of 780 characters per minute. The actual amount of compression needed de- pends on the speed of the speaker and on the amount of time available after the sentence. In documen- taries, for instance, there are often large silent in- tervals between two sentences, the speech is often slower and the speaker is off-screen, so the avail- able presentation time is longer. When the speaker is off-screen, the synchrony of the subtitles with the speech is of minor importance. When subti- tling the news the speech rate is often very high so the amount of reduction needed to allow the synchronous presentation of subtitles and speech is much greater. The sentence compression rate is a parameter which can be set for each sentence. Note that the sentence compression tool de- scribed in this paper is not a subtitling tool. When subtitling, only when a sentence needs to be re- duced, and the amount of reduction is known, the sentence is sent to the sentence compression tool. So the sentence compression tool is a module of an automated subtitling tool. The output of the sen- tence compression tool needs to be processed ac- cording to the subtitling guidelines like (Dewulf and Saerens, 2000), in order to be in the correct lay-out which makes it usable for actual subtitling. Manu- ally post-editing the subtitles will still be required, as for some sentences no automatic compression is generated. In real subtitling it often occurs that the sentences are not compressed, but to keep the subtitles syn- chronized with the speech, some sentences are en- tirely removed. In section 2 we describe the processing of a sen- tence in the sentence compressor, from input to out- put. In section 3 we describe how the system was evaluated and the results of the evaluation. Section 4 contains the conclusions. 

la conclusion est : 

ReferencesG. Booij and A. van Santen. 1995. Morfologie. Dewoordstructuur van het Nederlands. AmsterdamUniversity Press, Amsterdam, Netherlands.T. Brants. 2000. TnT - A Statistical Part-of-SpeechTagger. Published online at http://www.coli.unisb.de/thorsten/tnt.W. Daelemans and H. Strik. 2002. Het Nederlands in Taal- en Spraaktechnologie: Prioriteitenvoor Basisvoorzieningen. Technical report, Nederlandse Taalunie.B. Dewulf and G. Saerens. 2000. StijlboekTeletekst Ondertiteling. Technical report, VRT,Brussel. Internal Subtitling Guidelines.W. Haeseryn, G. Geerts, J de Rooij, andM. van den Toorn. 1997. Algemene Nederlandse Spraakkunst. Martinus Nijhoff Uitgevers,Groningen.ITC.1997.Guidance on standardsforsubtitling.Technicalreport,ITC.Online at http://www.itc.org.uk/codes guidelines/broadcasting/tv/sub signaudio/subtitling stnds/.H. Jing. 2001. Cut-and-Paste Text Summarization.Ph.D. thesis, Columbia University.F.J. Koopmans-van Beinum and M.E. van Donzel.1996. Relationship Between Discourse Structureand Dynamic Speech Rate. In Proceedings ICSLP 1996, Philadelphia, USA.N. Oostdijk, W. Goedertier, F. Van Eynde, L. Boves,J.P. Marters, M. Moortgat, and H. Baayen. 2002.Experiences from the Spoken Dutch Corpus. InProceedings of LREC 2002, volume I, pages 340–347, Paris. ELRA.F. Van Eynde. 2004. Part-of-speech Taggingen Lemmatisering. Internal manual of Corpus Gesproken Nederlands, published online athttp://www.ccl.kuleuven.ac.be/Papers/POSmanual febr2004.pdf.V. Vandeghinste and E. Tjong Kim Sang. 2004. Using a parallel transcript/subtitle corpus for sentence compression. In Proceedings of LREC2004, Paris. ELRA.V. Vandeghinste. 2002. Lexicon optimization:Maximizing lexical coverage in speech recognition through automated compounding. In Proceedings of LREC 2002, volume IV, pages 1270–1276, Paris. ELRA.V. Vandeghinste. submitted. ShaRPa: ShallowRule-based Parsing, focused on Dutch. In Proceedings of CLIN 2003.

